The Byzantine Empire and the Coming of Christianity
The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by waves of invaders.
In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army forcefully enlisted the men of the islands.
As the Byzantine Empire weakened at the end of the first millennium, Crusader forces were sent from Western Europe to counter the Muslim forces and retake Jerusalem for the Christian faith.
While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands.
renting of space could be made much more efficient where a lot of the accounting is just you know incredibly Byzantine and could be straightened out and where lots of different government activities are redundant
And while Slavs did move into the area around 500, when the Bulgarian Empire conquered the Balkans, the Serbs didn't gain control of Kosovo until the 12 th century, when a dynasty of their leaders known as the Nemanjids invaded it after a period of Byzantine rule.
NYT columnist Maureen Dowd takes the minority position that the Democrats carried the day, thanks to Glenn's smooth presentation and to the Republicans' jagged one, which, Dowd writes, consisted "mostly of arrows pointing to John Huang's name," and "a Byzantine theory linking Mr. Huang and the Lippo Group, his employers, to the 16th-century House of Fugger in Augsburg, the Rothschilds and the election of Emperor Charles V of the Hapsburgs."
Labor in the United States is by no means perfect, and dealing with intransigent unions can be a byzantine, harrowing, and expensive process.
For reasons too Byzantine to explain, it's the only unaccredited big zoo in the nation, and it could use a cash infusion.
For Sullivan, the "byzantine" nature of the current tax system benefits the wealthy, who can afford to pay people to decipher it.
Although estranged from Rome for hundreds of years, these tradition-rich churches long have fascinated John Paul II, who comes from a part of the world where Latin and Byzantine Christianity overlap.
His description toward the end of Climbing Mount Improbable of wasps enmeshed in Byzantine power struggles with fig trees is a model of nature writing, at once lyrical and lucid.
As regular readers of such publications as Greek, Roman, and Byzantine Studies ; the Classical Journal ; and the Journal of Biblical Literature are by now well aware, a dispute has long simmered about whether people in ancient times read to themselves silently, as we moderns do, or mostly read aloud.
And another thing: If these aliens are so adept at replicating the many moods of our planet, if they can speak English , how come they had to communicate with us in the first place through a byzantine binary code?
(The whole story is much more Byzantine than this.)
He called for a new international agreement of the kind that replaced the League of Nations with the United Nations, for it was unacceptable that the United Nations should become "merely a building where people go to complain or engage in Byzantine debates over texts that everyone knows the big powers will be the first to treat with contempt."
Unable to afford hefty bribes or airfare to Canada, Russian mothers are looking for other ways to finesse Russia's Byzantine draft laws and keep their sons out of the Chechen conflict.
But beneath Israelis' sympathy for Kosovars lurk more perplexing reactions that illuminate the anxieties of a state where a beleaguered ethnic minority seeks independence, the byzantine nature of Israeli electoral politics, and the enduring weight of the Holocaust in Israel--but not the weight you'd expect.
When that cause, too, failed and, after a decade of blood-spilling, the country ended up with a Byzantine coalition of interests presided over by a strongman, the Paz family went into exile in Los Angeles.
Specialists will no doubt be arguing over Saenger's thesis for years to come--don't let your subscription to Greek, Roman, and Byzantine Studies lapse.
In the Byzantine, languorous U.N. bureaucracy, Annan earned a reputation as someone who actually Got Things Done.
At the east end of the galleries, two small columns and a circle of green marble mark the spot where the empress sat during services; on the floor of the nave below, a circle of coloured stone to the right of centre is the Opus Alexandrinum, the place where the Byzantine emperors were crowned.
Known locally as ca’ (short for casa) as well as palazzo, the marble, brick, and white limestone palaces range over 600 years from Venetian-Byzantine to Renaissance, Baroque, and Neoclassical, but most of them are exotically 14th- and 15th-­century Gothic, Venice’s “trademark” in architectural styles.
Arkádi Monastery (Moní Arkadíou), in the foothills of the western Ída Mountains some 40 km (30 miles) south east of Réthymnon, was founded in the Byzantine era, though its present buildings date from the late 16th century.
Immediately next door to the Byzantine Museum is the War Museum, a modern building constructed during the military dictatorship.
Mycenaean figurines and pottery, Classical Greek and Roman sculpture, and Byzantine icons, frescoes and tapestries are all well-displayed and illustrate very effectively the varied influences that make up the history of the city.
The whole area was razed during Barbarian attacks in the centuries following the fall of the Roman Empire and was covered with new buildings during Byzantine times, all of which had to be cleared when excavations began.
The combination of figurative and intricate geometric designs was a collaborative effort of Syrian Muslim craftsmen with Byzantine Christians.
On the left is the Byzantine church of Haghia Eirene (Divine Peace), rebuilt together with Haghia Sophia after being burnt down in 532 (closed to the public).
Look out for the remains of a marble-covered Byzantine road (fourth- to century–14th-century) that once connected Lefkes with the nearby village of Karampoli down in the valley.
Set on the south coast of the Argolid, it has been a strategic strongpoint for centuries and boasts no less than four castles dating from Byzantine and Venetian times — on far more ancient foundations — called Akronafplia Castle.
The Romanesque façade makes a striking contrast with the eight Byzantine cupolas and two minaret-like towers around a central Gothic cone-shaped dome, reminiscent of Venice’s Basilica San Marco.
In 1456 Athens and Attica were taken by the Turks in their rampage across the disintegrating Byzantine Empire.
The Hippodrome was the setting for the ceremony which proclaimed Constantinople as the “New Rome” in a.d. 330, following the division of the Roman Empire, and soon became the civic centre of the Byzantine capital, decorated with imposing monuments and flanked by fine buildings.
Before you reach the village itself you’ll find a beautiful Byzantine chapel on your right.
As Constantinople, jewel of the Byzantine Empire, it was for more than 1,000 years the most important city in Christendom.
A Byzantine expedition from Constantinople ousted the Vandals from the Balearics in 534.
It was the great achievement of the Byzantine architects Isidorus and Anthemius, to transfer the weight of the dome to the pillars using arches and “pendentives,” the four triangular sections of masonry that fill the gaps between arches and dome, to create the illusion of an unsupported dome floating in space.
The most spectacular art treasures of the church are its gorgeous Byzantine mosaics, glittering Old Testament scenes high on the walls (don’t forget the binoculars), and a triumphant Mary and Jesus enthroned in the apse over the high altar.
The delicate ninth-century mosaics of Jesus and four angels make the Chapel of St. Zeno the city’s most important Byzantine monument.
Emperor Justinian (527–565) and his wife Theodora reannexed Italy to the Byzantine Empire and codified Roman law as the state’s legal system.
The twin towers, Baroque façade, and Byzantine dome of the Iglesia Nuestra Señora de la Concepción dominate a fascinating skyline that has remained virtually unchanged for centuries.
The cloisters house a National Museum of Roman, early Christian, and Byzantine Sculpture.
Cleverly integrating designs of Arab and Byzantine predecessors, the Norman palaces and churches join the crumbling grandeur of Spanish Baroque façades in momentary triumph over the chaos of the modern port city.
This was the center of population from Byzantine times through to Greek independence, and thus can be called Athens Old Town.
The more warmly-hued human figures are believed to be the work of Venetian mosaicists, as opposed to the more rigidly formal Byzantine figures of Palermo’s Palatine Chapel.
In the nave, the church’s famous Byzantine mosaics show, on the left, Ravenna’s fortified port of Classis, from which a procession of 22 virgins follows the three Magi with gifts for Jesus on his mother’s lap; on the right, from Theodoric’s palace, 26 male martyrs march towards Christ.
Of the few remains of the Byzantine city, the most remarkable building is the Haghia Sophia.
Originally the main street of Roman and Byzantine times (cardo means “heart” in Latin), it was once a broad colonnaded market and ceremonial street that went through the center of Jerusalem, from the Damascus Gate in the north to the southern edge of the city.
The museum holds a wealth of artifacts from the early Christian and Byzantine eras, concentrating on the religious themes that were so important in unifying the Greek world at this time.
Founded in the seventh century and reconstructed in 1008, it’s probably the finest of the Venetian-Byzantine churches, one of Europe’s finest outside of Ravenna.
Built in the Neo-Romanesque style during the first years of the 20th century, consecrated in 1910, the abbey contains a sanctuary ornamented with beautiful gold-and-polychrome mosaics in the Byzantine style.
Small Byzantine churches sit on street corners, side by side with family homes.
Icons lie at the heart of Byzantine or Orthodox worship in both the Greek and Russian churches, and they form a focus for prayer — the characteristic gold leaf used in their production symbolized the glory of God.
Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced Jerusalem to rubble again.
On the east wall are two images showing Byzantine emperors and emperesses making offerings to Christ on his throne (to the left), and to the Virgin and Child.
Exploiting a natural genius for assimilating the useful elements of the local culture rather than indiscriminately imposing their own, they adopted Arab-style tax collectors and customs officials and Byzantine fleet-admirals for their navy.
When it re-opens, it will carry displays of Early Christian, Byzantine, and European art, together with ancient coins and medals.
The thriving city has long since spread beyond the fifth-century Byzantine walls built by the Emperor Theodosius II, and now sprawls for miles along the shores of the Sea of Marmara on both the European and Asian sides.
But the empire’s troubles increased as invaders made further incursions into Byzantine territory.
Byzantine ritual colored the Roman liturgy.
January: Piana degli Albanesi (near Palermo): colorful Byzantine ritual for Epiphany
Lombard territory split Byzantine Italy up into segments ruled from the coasts.
During Byzantine times it was used as a dye works, and the Ottomans used it for defensive purposes.
Ruled in the early sixth century by Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths, it was recaptured for Emperor Justinian in 540, and Byzantine culture left its mark for another two centuries.
Further south, Byzantine columns and Corinthian capitals found in situ were re-installed to give visitors an idea of how the original Cardo looked.
At the summit, within three layers of protective wall, are the remains of a Temple of Aphrodite, an early Christian Basilica, Byzantine cisterns, a Frankish Tower, and Ottoman mosques and fountains — this is Greek history in a nutshell!
To the east, the grand Byzantine citadel of Ravenna dominates the seaside resorts lining the Adriatic.
In the same compound you’ll find the Basilica of Eleona, finished in 1923 on the site of a Byzantine church.
Under the canopy carved with Romanesque-Byzantine reliefs is the high altar, richly encased in elaborate, bejeweled, and enamelled plates of gold and silver.
Two Franciscan churches built over Crusader and Byzantine ruins are said to be the sites of these events; today there are also Russian and Greek Orthodox convents in the village.
At the other end of the Rue Saint-Vincent, you will come around the back of the 19th-century Romano-Byzantine Sacré-Cœur basilica, towering over Paris with its gleaming white façade and distinctive domes and arches.
The heart of Chalki hides a Venetian tower and the whole valley has a number of small Byzantine chapels.
Sofias you’ll find the Byzantine Museum housed in a splendid 19th-century mansion built for Sophie de Marbois, wife of one of Napoleon’s generals.
Interiors were decorated with frescoes in the Byzantine tradition; primitive sculpture of biblical episodes or rural life on the capitals of columns; painted altar front panels; carved wooden crosses, and Madonnas of great purity.
The oldest most striking of the Byzantine monuments, in the northern corner of the city center, is the fifth-century Mausoleum of Galla Placidia.
The island was recaptured after a terrible siege of Iráklion by Byzantine commander Nikephóros Phokás.
At Thrónos visit the 14th-century Panagía chapel for its frescoes and the remains of an early Byzantine mosaic floor from a previous basilica — if the church is locked ask at the shop next door as they keep a key.
The interior is decorated in Byzantine style and is strangely compelling.
The walls of the interior were removed during the Byzantine era, and the north corner (column and pediment) was removed by Elgin and taken to London with the “Elgin marbles.”
On Paros, the marble-clad Byzantine road at Lefkes takes you down the valley to Karampoli.
The church was built on the site of Byzantine and Crusader ruins, paid for by donations from all over the world, and dedicated by the Franciscans in 1924.
Under Byzantine rule the city of Pericles sank into deep provincial obscurity.
The mosaic floor of the original Byzantine church is especially charming.
Glass plates in the church floor allow you to see fragments of the Byzantine floor mosaics left from the floor of an earlier church.
The exhibits span the centuries from the Iberian era to the Visigothic period, but pride of place goes to objects from the 10th-century palace of Medina Azahara, like the bronze figure of a stag taken from a fountain presented by the Byzantine emperor Constantine VII.
Guides will tell you that its 255 enameled panels were encrusted by master Venetian and Byzantine artisans with close to 2,000 precious stones, including pearls, garnets, sapphires, emeralds and rubies.
Three great civilizations have shaped this part of the city — Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman.
From David Street head into the recently excavated Cardo, the main thoroughfare of Roman and Byzantine Jerusalem and a former Crusader marketplace.
In Rome, the highly political popes played the Lombard duchies against those of the Byzantine Empire.
Stop at the Byzantine church in the village — you’ll find stone from the ancient site used here too — and see the stone execution block of the martyrs.
The island’s quiet spot is the 12th-century Venetian-Byzantine church of Santa Maria e San Donato, with a powerful mosaic in the apse.
Byzantine and Ottoman Obscurity
For nearly 1,000 years the Church of Haghia Sophia was the greatest church in Christendom, an architectural wonder built by the Byzantine Empire to impress the world.
John D. Rockefeller Jr. provided th e money to build this wonderful Art Deco/Neo-Byzantine edifice in 1927.
It is almost a living museum with Byzantine Churches, Neo-Classical mansions housing galleries or collectibles stores, and a wealth of historical detail at every turn.
Icons lie at the heart of Byzantine or Orthodox worship and they form a focus for prayer.
This was taken to Constantinople during the Byzantine era.
A remnant of the Byzantine Empire survived in Nicaea (now Iznik), and recaptured Constantinople in 1261, but the city had been shattered and its great monuments were strip­ped of gold, silver, and precious works of art.
This was the site of the original Byzantium, founded in the seventh century b.c. , and of the civic centre of Constantinople, capital of the Byzantine Empire.
Fortified since the seventh century b.c. the summit is criss-crossed with miles of high stone walls dating from this time that were expanded during the Byzantine and Ottoman eras.
When Roman power split in two, the eastern Byzantine Empire inherited the island (though its hold on islands in the south of its dominion were, in reality, nominal).
The greatest of the Byzantine emperors was Justinian the Great (ruler from 527 to 565), who introduced an equitable legal system, and also extended the boundaries of the empire into Spain, Italy, and Africa.
The street with the tram lines that lead uphill from Sultanahmet (Divan Yolu) was, and still is, the main road leading to the city gates in Byzantine and Ottoman times.
Benáki was born in a Greek community in Egypt, and many of the artifacts on display originate from this other ancient land, though there is a good range of Classical and Roman statuary, and collections from the Early Christian and Byzantine eras including two paintings by El Greco.
The pretty Byzantine church (c1080) has a stone-and-tile dome exterior but is famed throughout Greece for the fantastic mosaics that decorate the interior, particularly that of Christ Pantocrator in the main dome.
A small square cuts its path just a little way from Monastiráki Square, and it is decorated with the beautiful Byzantine church of Kapnikaréa, the official church of Athens University.
The interior is a heady mix of Crusader and Byzantine styles, and because of inter-denominational bickering, false partitions, and poor maintenance it is difficult to understand without a guide.
The long, narrow park stretching southwest from Haghia Sophia is known as the Hippodrome (At Meydanı), and in Byzantine times that’s exactly what it was.
With Oriental and Byzantine decorative elements reflecting the Pisan Republic’s overseas interests, its four-tiered arcaded façade over three porches is a masterpiece of grace and delicacy.
Though little remains from Roman times, the city’s Byzantine legacy boasts Haghia Sophia, the Church of the Divine Wisdom and one of the world’s greatest buildings; the magnificent mosaics of St. Saviour in Chora; and the impressive Theodosian Walls.
The chapel was constructed in 1248 to house holy relics, fragments of what were believed to be Jesus’s Crown of Thorns and the True Cross, which pious Louis IX (later canonized as St. Louis) had bought from the Byzantine emperor.
On Naxos, you can walk through the pretty villages of the Tragea Valley and the foothills of Mount Zas, admiring Byzantine churches and exploring olive groves at your leisure.
Much of the permanent collection comprises 19th- and 20th-century Greek art and post-Byzantine icons, though you can also find works by El Greco, Picasso, and Delacroix.
The Byzantine Emperor at the time, Manuel II (1391–1425), tried to appease his enemies by allowing a Turkish district, mos­que, and tribunal within his city, and by courting Turkish goodwill with gifts of gold, but to no avail.
In the southeast corner of the site, the 11th century church of Ayios Apostoloi is the only building on the site remaining from the Byzantine era.
