Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands, marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring.
They eventually reached the islands, and founded colonies on the islands in the northernmost part of the Aegean Sea.
They eventually reached the islands, and founded colonies on the islands in the northernmost part of the Aegean Sea.
An important early material, obsidian, was discovered on the island of Milos.
At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the Cyclades islands.
Santorini (Thira), the next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time.
In the wake of this tremendous natural upheaval, the Aegean Islands next came under the influence of the Mycenaeans (at around 1300 b.c. ), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland.
They held sway over islands off the northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual.
The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major building projects.
The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major building projects.
From a power base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and set their sights on the Cyclades.
The island communities were undecided about which side to back for a time.
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly punished the islands that had turned against it.
Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of Delos.
Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of Delos.
Although the islands saw little action, as the war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power.
Before the end of the war in 401 b.c. , many islands had already transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II of Macedon.
Although in 88 b.c. , Mithradates made a swift and successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands, the next major power change brought influence from the West.
In a.d. 95, St. John arrived on Patmos, a small rocky island in the Dodecanese, as a political prisoner.
The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by waves of invaders.
In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army forcefully enlisted the men of the islands.
By the time of the Crusades, many of the Aegean islands had been practically depopulated.
While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands.
This created a pattern seen today throughout the Aegean of a small port (skala) which serves an inland settlement or chora, making it easier to protect the island from attack.
The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco Sanudo on Naxos.
The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and trade.
They began the process of building their strong citadels, and reinforcing the Christian faith on the islands.
By the end of the 13th century, they began their first raids on the Aegean Islands.
They then set their sights on the islands of the Knights of St. John and, after an unsuccessful siege in 1480, they finally ejected the knights from the Dodecanese in 1522.
In 1566, they wrested Chios from the Genoese, bolstering their hold on the eastern Aegean Islands, but the Cyclades remained in Venetian hands for another generation or more — Tinos was the last to fall in 1715.
The Ottomans brought new influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean.
In 1770, Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774.
The Aegean Islands played their part.
The Cyclades and the Sporades island chains were also included in this new state.
The Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the Dodecanese islands to the Italians.
Greece took this opportunity to absorb the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean and to add Macedonia to its mainland territories.
Many had to leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the Greek-ruled islands just offshore.
Thousands of people arrived with little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the resources of the islands.
His forces made a series of attacks from their bases in the Dodecanese islands, including sinking a Greek naval vessel in the harbor of Tinos Town, but they only succeeded in strengthening the resolve of the population against them.
Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the islands.
After the war, in 1949, the Dodecanese islands finally became part of the Greek nation.
The struggle bypassed most of the islands, although there was fierce fighting on Samos.
The Aegean Islands, which for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of several islands came close to collapse.
The Aegean Islands, which for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of several islands came close to collapse.
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.
Airfields have been constructed on a number of the islands, and road systems have been expanded and im proved.
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused consternation within conservative Greek society.
They grew up on, on Long Island, sort of in Great Gatsby-land.
As parameters of the network discussed below are tuned from the chaotic regime toward the ordered regime, the green percolating sea becomes smaller and eventually fragments into two or many isolated green islands.
In the mid-19th century, free port status was granted by royal decree to one port in each of the islands (two in Tenerife).
off Cape Cod, you scan the pre-dawn pine forest with a high-tech microphone to solve a bioacoustic mystery: Why this island's chickadees sing a different song from all other chickadees in the U.S. !
I had mother's youngest brother Buster was sent to, um, the Pacific theater and he was in the Battle of Guadalcanal and all of the big, he was in the infantry and in all of the big battles over there from island hopping.
It may be that Welsh has found the first evidence of genes lying in eight dierent green islands, buered from one another by the percolating red frozen structure.
It is in fact the principal island of an archipelago of 14, most of them little more than piles of rocks.
At first we noticed that abundance (not necessarily personal abundance, although the post-WWII/Cold War takeoff of the US economy afforded better living for much higher proportions of the US population) was not satisfying to us, although it seemed to be sufficient for our parents who had suffered serious deprivation during the Depression and then horrifying war (our fathers ignorant men thrown together in foreign lands to face death with only each other's bodies for support--while longing for the comfort of love and habit sent by the women who became our mothers in letters to unknowable islands and bivouacs).
twenty miles is going is just going a little different way it's probably twenty miles longer than my normal way to work i live in Rhode Island work in Massachusetts but
The RNA was reverse transcribed by Superscript II RT (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) according to manufacturer's specification.
My favorite Wag the Dog target is St. Kitts, a Caribbean island where a local drug dealer (Charles "Little Nut" Miller) has threatened to murder American students at the island's veterinary school if the United States tries to extradite him.
They both immigrated well my grandmother immigrated to New York I believe and then made her way up to Rhode Island where I believe she worked as a domestic.
By 1810, the Pawtucket, Rhode Island, enterprise begun with Slater’s cunning had spawned a vibrant cotton-spinning industry throughout New England.
The few dozen islands and rocks are widely scattered along the great curving chain of the Lesser Antilles.
After a few days on a private island in the Black Sea, our friends are able to use new passports to fly to Dubai and join Cyril and Vyvyan.
you know uh on all of the islands you know now the gisland of of Oahu naturally has got more people on it than the other islands but
The importance of geographic location can be explained by the availability of radiation facilities on the different Hawaiian Islands.
The mods are Jim Jeffords (Vermont), John Chafee (Rhode Island), and Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine.
the team i was with we jumped in on the western tip of of the island down on Point Salinas
Murine fibroblast NIH 3T3 cells, amphotropic PA317 packaging cells, and Phoenix E ecotropic packaging cells were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)-high glucose (GIBCO-BRL, Grand island, NY, USA) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (GIBCO-BRL, Grand island, NY, USA), 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, and 200 mM L-glutamine.
I saw this quote this week in the Long Island newspaper, Newsday , in which a GOP loyalist was boasting publicly about how well organized a "machine" the Republican Party was in getting out the vote.
on an island so far away there's no chance they can ever get off
Transcriptional silencing of genes resulting from DNA hypermethylation of CpG islands is reversed by treatment with the hypo-methylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and HDAC-inhibiting agent n-butyrate in a dose and duration-dependent manner.
But unfortunately for Leeson, his new career is not all Fantasy Island: His assets are frozen, and sixty-five percent of all his revenue goes to Barings, whom he owes $164.
but uh then you can uh take a uh take a little bus across the island to the to the gulf side rather than the bay side and uh
Review of theOperations of the Sea Island Comprehensive Health
The small pocket of Windward Island semantic, if such it can be called, has nothing to do with the patois of adjacent French islands.
Those who identify with the Bill of Rights and the mentality of 1791 think of both rights and freedom as islands of autonomy protected by the walls of the law against the threat of government.
But the most interesting thing to do here is to explore the two villages on the island, Cheung Chau and San Wai.
but he always maintained his own apartment he lived in the city he lived in uh Rhode Island in fact we live in Rhode Island i work in in the Massachusetts plant but i live in Rhode Island
The fourth candidate, of unknown function, lies approximately 149 kb from the opposite side of the symbiosis island from the other three (Figure 4).
An editorial in the Jakarta Post declared the elections "a triumph for the Indonesian people and democracy," but in light of predictions that Golkar would poll strongly in the country's outer islands and might be able to hold on to power with the help of small Islamic parties, the Post said, "It would be a hollow victory and a terrible irony if our exercise in democracy failed to produce the very goal of the whole process: Voting out the status quo and putting a proreform government in its place."
Although the multi-paned windows are present at an upper level of the wall, the corner of the room is glazed with large, mullionless sheets of plate glass, offering dramatic views of Long Island Sound.
The circular road now arcs north to the diminutive village of Camacha, where the principal attraction is a picturesque old windmill — one of the last few still working on the island.
well i really enjoyed um i went to Mackinaw Island
The NYS Department of Health applied the scan method to New York as a whole, while the local Moran and boundary analyses used only the ZIP codes in Long Island.
More enlivening by far is Love and Death on Long Island , in which another aging protagonist (John Hurt), a clubby English novelist poignantly out of touch with modern society, goes on another soulful quest, developing an obsession with a beautiful teen idol (Jason Priestley) whom he accidentally sees on-screen in a film called Hot Pants College 2 . First-time director Richard Kwietniowski has fun with the collision of high and low culture, and he does elegant work.
Near the phase transition to chaos, the green islands begin to exhibit sustained “limit cycle” oscillations that become chaotic in the chaotic regime.
Perhaps the most enchanting city of the Balearics, Ciutadella — with its sandstone buildings, churches, and cobblestone streets — preserves the flavor of a Spanish colonial island town.
didn't really know that there were all those lakes out there unless you were from that area and kind of spotted them but there was quite a few lakes all around there it seemed like it was almost like you were living on an island there was so much water around where i was
Women with early stage breast cancer living on Oahu were 70% more likely to have BCS than women living on outer islands.
The nonstate actors range from 10 cent thugs such as Miller, who has merely shanghaied a small island, to world-class dastards such as Bin Laden, who runs a supranational organization, has loyalty to no government, owns a vast fortune and an armory of high-tech weapons, and is engaged in an elaborate conspiracy so secretive that we were not aware of it till it smacked us in the head.
The total number of attractors for the entire network is then x x = . And if so, cell types are a kind of combinatorial code of the choices made by the dierent islands.
The Bahamian islands (where the temperance crusade never had much chance) were perfectly placed to help thirsty Americans.
which is right on on the Massachusetts Rhode Island state line that's that's why i work in Massachusetts it's only it's only a twenty minute ride
Exon 1 is located within a strong CpG island, indicating the likely presence of a promoter in this region.
LONG ISLAND ICED TEA CALIFORNIA ROOT BEER ½ ounce vodka 1 ounce Galliano ½ ounce rum 1 ounce coffee liqueur ½ ounce gin Fill with cola.
The Palmedo House, built in 1988, reinterprets the American Colonial architecture of its location—Long Island.
Sailing north to find and claim islands for the Spanish crown, Columbus named one Saint-Barthélemy after his brother and another Saint-Martin, probably after the saint on whose feast day he had spotted it.
i had an aunt that lived there and she she couldn't stand it anymore she moved out because she said the whole island was taken you know being taken over by the Japanese
For the local Moran analysis, we are asking questions specific to Long Island, against a null hypothesis that states that cancer risk is uniform across Long Island.
The "remote island paradise" where the Star says Frank and Kathie Lee Gifford bumped into Frank's former paramour Suzen Johnson turns out to be Nantucket, Mass.
We can use the data to find the genes in the same isolated green islands, for avalanches should be confined to one island and overlap if started at dierent genes in the same island.
Some 460 km (276 miles) long and averaging 80 km (48 miles) wide, the mountainous island is covered by the largest stand of lumber in the world, a boon to the province’s most important industry, but also a magnet for nature-lovers.
but even just like in the States it was fun when we went to Mackinac Island that was pretty cool
Seven local clusters of high SMR values occurred in the more central portions of Long Island (Table 4, Figure 4).
These experts, notable among them Stephen M. Dickson of the Maine Department of Conservation and L. Kenneth Fink of the Darling Marine Center in Walpole, Maine, quickly fingered the culprit: the concrete sidewalk, erected some 75 years ago by an island benefactor--one Mr. Stanley of Steamer fame.
For each such island, cut o from influence by other islands by the frozen red structure, has its own alternative attractors, two for this island, five for that island, seven for a third island.
No discussion of Hawaii would be complete, however, without mentioning some other islands in the chain.
you have a nice day and i'm going to say good bye for now and if you're ever up Rhode Island way around TI look me up it's Ray Smith at TI in Albrough Massachusetts
The term "Zone 2 State" means Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Colorado,the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas west of Interstate 35, Utah, the Virgin Islands, Washington, and Wyoming.
A better bet for drama is Meltdown at Three Mile Island (PBS, 9 p.m.), a tense documentary narrative on the 1979 nuclear accident.
The point of fragmentation of the green sea into green islands constitutes a phase transition from the chaotic to the ordered regime.
Having conquered the islands, they named them Balearis Major (Mallorca) and Balearis Minor (Menorca).
see mine does too in Dallas and um yeah but no there's there's TI's up in Rhode Island and stuff and that guy talked about fishing and i asked him if he took his wife and
Analysis of the cag pathogenicity island reveals that whereas the major differences are conserved, some loci also display consistent weak signal across a portion of the strains (black regions, Figure 9).
It grieves Tasmanians that the Island State [or Flyspeck or Speck ] is sometimes left off the map of Australia, yet no one visiting the former convict colony can be untouched by the tangible pervasiveness of the past and the importance attached by Tasmanians to activities and events which, in mainland terms, are long gone.
So a vast, twinkling green sea spans the network, typically leaving behind isolated frozen red islands.
A family resort on the west side of the island, Ke Nani Kai consists of spacious fully-appointed apartments, a swimming poo1, tennis courts, and a golf course.
like in the in the Virgin Islands
Total RNA was prepared from synovial tissue by an acid phenol method according to the procedure described by Chomczynski and Sacchi [ 31 ] . RNA (20 μg) was digested with five units of DNase in 1× reverse transcription buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) containing eight units of RNase inhibitor (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) for 30 minutes at 37°C.
It is difficult to give a precise definition of electricity (particularly if you spent much of seventh-grade science class mooning over your lab partner, Sally Gilbert), but it seems to have something to do with the movement of electrons from one part of Long Island to another.
When Spain and Portugal remained loyal to Catholicism, and expanded their empires by settling in South America, Central America, the Caribbean Islands, and parts of North America, the rest of Europe looked on very disapprovingly.
As evidenced by bones, weapons, and pottery most recently uncovered by archeologists, the Asian equivalent of Neanderthal Man crossed a now-submerged land bridge from eastern Siberia to what is now Sakhalin Island and northern Japan some 100,000 years ago.
at the same time there was one unsolved murder on the island of Tortola and the whole island wanted to know when the hanging was going to take place
The good results obtained on human data with even a simple sequence model are apparently largely due to the strong correlation of vertebrate promoters with CpG islands.
Book -- Island of the Colorblind , by Oliver Sacks;
Because purple avalanches cannot propagate through the frozen red percolating sea, the green islands are functionally isolated from one another.
However, alcohol is duty-free only if bought to take off the island, not when purchased for consumption on the island.
it's in Rhode Island actually i live in Rhode Island i work in Massachusetts
For example, if we were asked to study what caused the Three Mile Island disaster and scoped the job to describe whether required safeguards were complied with, this would not be a case study.
In fact, Connecticut and Rhode Island have abolished county government altogether, and in those states the former county boundaries merely furnish a convenient way in which people can refer to a regional group of towns.
He obliged them in a string of high-profile commissions: magnificent mansions along Fifth Avenue, country houses on Long Island, and palatial “cottages” in Newport, Rhode Island.
Visit Burano to see intricate laceware being made in the time-honored manner in the island’s small museum.
i wanted to move there it sounded like uh a neat place to live an island in the sun you know and uh
Boundary overlap (Figure 13) revealed that there is some overlap in male and female lung cancer boundaries, especially in the central portion of Long Island, but this amount of overlap was not statistically significant under boundary overlap analysis when Long Island is considered as a whole (Table 6).
The Island of the Colorblind , which explores both disease--achromatopsia (color-blindness) and lytico-bodig (a disorder similar to Parkinson's)--and Micronesia, is being dismissed as half botanical treatise, half travelogue.
At that time, Samuel Slater, a skilled mechanic, built the first successful water-powered yarn spinning mill in Pawtucket, Rhode Island.
So in a sense, island life continues just as it always has!
um there's been a lot of publicity um in New York on Long Island where um
Supplements including: 1% fetal calf serum (GIBCO BRL, Grand Island, NY), 1% l-glutamine (Sigma Chemical), 1% ascorbic acid (Sigma Chemical) and 1% penicillin and streptomycin (Sigma Chemical) were added immediately prior to use.
Critics predict that the Staten Island rap group's 27-track double CD--released along with Wu-Wear, a clothing line--will mark a breakthrough for hip-hop, as both hype and art.
Therefore, in such networks a percolating frozen red sea exists, leaving behind isolated green islands, and the distribution of purple damage avalanches is a power law with a finite cuto at about times the square root of the number of genes (Figure .b).
Nightlife varies from island to island, and on some of the smaller islands, an evening will revolve around dinner and conversation at the local taverna, or a stroll along the seafront.
they take care of the um landscape because we live in a cul-de-sac and there's a island in the middle and so they care of that and there's a pool and they take care of the pool and and there's a pond they take care of the pond and the park area and that kind of thing and so you're
); notably, the genetic distance between mainland and island populations of 
But in the five states with video lotteries (Delaware, West Virginia, and Rhode Island, along with South Dakota and Oregon), average per capita lottery spending is about $600 per year.
More, patterns of gene activities that change will change in correlated ways for genes in the same green island, but not for genes in dierent green islands.
They are not true islands but are each connected by a narrow neck of land.
you know i work in Massachusetts because it's not that far away but i live in Rhode Island so but no i didn't see that one i didn't um
Tissue culture supplements and media were purchased from GIBCO (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA).
Who are these aristocrats whose limos take them to secret masked orgies in Long Island mansions?
6%), Rhode Island (8.
He and his twin brother, Roderick, were born in 1930 in St. Lucia, a small link in the Antilles island chain, then part of the British West Indies.
The enrolled subjects are from, approximately, the one half of the clinics, public or private, of the two biggest metropolitan cities (Athens and Thessalonica), and from, almost, all the major clinics of the other regions (3 from Sterea Ellada, 3 from Thessalia, 2 from Hpeiros, 5 from Macedonia, 2 from Thrace, 5 from Peloponnese, 2 from Crete, 5 from Aegean and 3 from Ionian islands).
And we hope Adam Sandler makes good use of his time on Prison Island."
A large cluster of lung cancer SMR 20-60% higher than the New York average was identified in central Long Island.
Thus gu\symbol\ngd\symbol\o means broad island and translates the Japanese name of Hiroshima , while d¯ngjīng , meaning eastern capital, translates the Japanese original of Tokyo.
We identified clusters on Long Island that are exceptional compared to the state averages that went into the expected value calculation.
[From the fifth in a series of articles on Maine islands, Island Odyssey, by Edie Lau, staff writer for the Portland Press Herald and Maine Sunday Telegram, 18 August 1996.]
In contrast, the scan technique, employed by New York State, uses ZIP code centroids and circles drawn around those centroids to represent Long Island's geography.
Describing Indonesian military intervention in West Kalimantan, an Indonesian-controlled territory on the island of Borneo plagued by ethnic and religious conflict, the paper said that "armed mobs paraded the severed heads of their victims through villages" and that "the bridges in one town had been hung with the dismembered parts of the victims' bodies."
The Customs Service retains an amount equal to the estimated cost of collecting these duties, including all costs of operations in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and an allocation of overhead; it transfers the remainder to the Treasury, which, in turn, transfers the collections to Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands.
The Diced Islands
Briefly, 3 μl of the cDNA was in a reaction of 25 μl that contained final concentrations of 1× Platinum PCR buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 3.5 mM MgCl 2 , 200 μM dNTP, 500 nM each primer (Mega Bases, Chicago, IL, USA), 200 nM FAM-TAMRA probe (Mega Bases, IL, USA), 100 nM Blue 636 (BD 636), 0.05 units platinum Taq DNA polymerase (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA).
As he talked about his life ¦ and played his catholic selection of Desert Island discs, ¦¦ it became clear that he's a DOER ¦ and not a PONDERER ¦ on life's inequities.
, [ 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 ] ]. Reexamination of Drosophila constitutive heterochromatin revealed that long stretches of highly repetitive DNA are interrupted by "islands" of retrotransposon sequences [e.g.
He says in his book that we should spin off Puerto Rico as an independent country because most people on the island don't speak English.
Even when compared to New York state as a whole, the cancer rates on Long Island seem to be elevated.
Papa, he was a big man, and I not so large, so I would curse and sweat in the tropical island heat, and Papa would laugh and stop from time to time to pull at his brown bottle.
The firm had just been created through the merger of three groups: the Legal Aid Society of Omaha, Legal Services of Southeast Nebraska in Lincoln and Western Legal Services of Grand Island.
The Post gives this order of battle: "F-117 stealth aircraft and A-10 fighter jets at Kuwait's Jabir Air Base, B-1 bombers and F-16 and F-15 fighter jets at Bahrain's Sheik Isa Airfield, F-14 and F-18 fighter jets on two carriers, cruise missiles on a number of other ships and B-52 bombers on the British island of Diego Garcia."
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS -State and local governments generally include: the 50 States and the District of Columbia; cities, counties, townships, school districts, special districts, public authorities, and other local governmental units as defined by the Bureau of the Census; and Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and other US territories.
One day Marshall notices smoke rising from the island on which the organ-harvested apes are warehoused.
Total RNA was prepared from synovial tissue by an acid phenol method according to the procedure described by Chomczynski and Sacchi [ 31 ] . RNA (20 μg) was digested with five units of DNase in 1× reverse transcription buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) containing eight units of RNase inhibitor (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) for 30 minutes at 37°C.
Being very new to this country and having, so far, only encountered school English, she found it difficult to believe that dialectal variation could be so great in such a tight little island as ours, and that so much of it could be unintelligible to the uninitiated.
This project is used to connect offices in the other islands to the main LASH office in Honolulu.
Block Islanders, furthermore, have tossed their share of nautical expressions into the stream of Rhode Island consciousness, as when Harry Allen, ancient seafarer, reported on his visit to the doctor.
Closer analysis of the cag pathogenicity island revealed that the predictions were for the most part identical to the previously published predictions.
She prompts the island's Princess Nausicaa to cajole her father into letting her drive a year's worth of dirty clothes all the way down to the water's edge in a big ox-drawn wagon, to spend the day with her maids washing and drying them on the beach, right where Athena knew she would find the shipwrecked Odysseus.
When we consider Long Island as a whole, these boundaries are neither significantly fragmented nor contiguous.
( Yankee in Rhode Island refers to descendants of the English who came here before the immigrants. )
There is a cluster in north-mid Long Island, made up of two significant local clusters centered on Bayville (11709) and Mill Neck (11765).
Falkland Islands.
Extended regions of high CpG island density, such as the terminus of 1p and 1q21-q22, are apparent in the FISH assay.
Beltway Gossip Dump: Washington politicos think the death of Rhode Island Senator John Chafee means that: a) as has been reported, the Republican governor of Rhode Island will appoint Chafee's son, Lincoln--who was already running for the Senate seat from which his father was retiring--to serve the remainder of his father's term; b) as only kausfiles will tell you, Rep.
The Northeast region included hospitals located in the states of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
The issue of Town & Country for September, 1988, had a full-page advertisement for Sea Island Cotton entrely in French except for the American name of the company.
While 56% of women on Oahu underwent BCS, only 43% of the women residing on the outer islands received BCS.
"Beijing hopes to regain sovereignty over the island by peaceful means, but will not rule out invasion as a last resort," it added.
Lacking a target, they were vectored toward military-controlled airspace off the Long Island coast.
The story points out that Lee has long done consulting work for a Taiwan military institute and has two sisters who still live on the island.
Some krill fisheries operate near the island of South Georgia, east of the Falkland Islands.
Set in the fictional Cuyama (clearly Guyana), Shiva's A Hot Country is a West Indian masterpiece, even though islands characterize the community and Guyana (formerly BG, or British Guyana) is mainland.
The entire amount of the duties could be transferred to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and these governments could then pay the Customs Service to reimburse it for its services of collecting duties.
Only a few lonely dentists would survive to fill the few remaining cavities, the last vestiges of a once-great civilization on Long Island.
where I i is the statistic for ZIP code i, z i is the difference between the SMR at i and the mean SMR for Long Island, z j is the difference between the SMR at j and the mean for Long Island.
Even on so small an island as Taiwan the Mandarin-speaking ex-mainlanders cannot converse with the Taiwanese-born majority who have not bothered to learn Mandarin.
--The Customs Service collects duties on goods imported by Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
For the best part of half a century I have lived on and off in a Windward Island of the now largely ex-British Caribbean.
Shelter Island (11964) is a significant spatial outlier, though its confidence intervals are wide (and overlap 1) due to the small number of observed cases there.
One reason Long Island epitomizes boredom is because of its ur-suburb, Levittown, tedium expressed as architecture.
A site (Three Mile Island).
' Early explorers on the islands found great numbers of large dogs there and named the archipelago after them, from the Latin canis `dog.
, [ 32 33 ] ]. Drosophila genes in heterochromatin are typically associated with these islands of retrotransposons [ 2 31 34 35 36 ] . It has been suggested that transposable elements inserted into heterochromatin may locally alter chromatin structure [e.g.
APOSTA, a creature in the island of Tobago, in America, so much in love with men, that it often follows them and delights to gaze on them.
05% collagenase and 0.25% trypsin (GIBCO, Grand Island, NY) in Ca 2+/Mg 2+-free HBSS.
(The Ramseys buried their daughter in Atlanta, then vacationed in Sea Island, Ga.) This absence, some speculate, gave the Ramseys time to work out a story to explain their innocence.
Taking Long Island as a whole, the boundaries in breast cancer SMR are further away from boundaries in OPR than one would expect by chance (Figure 9, Table 4).
The ban affects anybody who spent over six cumulative months in England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man, and Channel Islands from Jan. 1, 1980, to Dec. 31, 1996.
Women residing on Oahu were considerably more likely to have BCS than women living on all other islands in the state.
At horse latitudes , the author has picked up the theory that it comes from “ golfo de las yeguas , `gulf of the mares,' which was the Spanish name for the ocean between Spain and the Canary Islands and compares the supposed fickleness of mares with the fickle winds in these latitudes.”
aDNA could also, in principle, be used to shed light on the evolutionary position of the 18,000-year-old “hobbit” recently unearthed on the Indonesian island of Flores [8].
On March 27, 1977, the pilot of a KLM 747 radioed We are now at take-off, as his plane began rolling down the runway in Tenerife, the Canary Islands.
Therefore, promoter-finding methods based on sequence information successfully identify almost the exact same subset of promoters, owing to the high correlation with the subset of promoters located within CpG islands [ 8].
The average income of the top 20 percent of families was $137,500, or more than 10 times that of the poorest 20 percent, which was $13,300, but in nine states--New York, Arizona, New Mexico, Louisiana, California, Rhode Island, Texas, Oregon, and Kentucky--the top figure was more than 11 times the bottom.
Three out of four women resided on the island of Oahu.
Alec makes news with his caustic condemnations: He called Newt Gingrich "evil" and Alfonse D'Amato "the bozo pool attendant from Island Park."
RPMI-1640 medium without phenol red, cell culture freezing medium containing DMSO, fetal bovine serum (FBS), penicillin, streptomycin, 7.5% bovine serum albumin (BSA), phosphate buffer saline (PBS, pH = 7.4), and trypan blue were purchased from Life Technologies (Grand Island, NY).
We are asked to believe not only that President Clinton (shanghaied by the filmmakers into a notorious cameo) could inspire the nation to spend trillions of dollars on this machine without even a raised eyebrow from George Will, but also that a cross-eyed, homicidal doomsday prophet would be hired to put the finishing touches on it; and that after he sabotages the whole project in the name of Jesus, it would be rebuilt at a secret location on the island of Hokkaido by a zillionaire eccentric who floats around in orbit aboard his own custom-made Mir.
Total RNA was extracted from dissected tumor containing 90% or greater IDC using TRIzol ®(Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) followed by RNeasy ®(Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA).
The Rhode Island native made his debut in 1994 with a mannered, Mean Streets -style, Italian-guys-from-the-neighborhood picture called Federal Hill and followed that with a strenuously boring adaptation of David Mamet's American Buffalo (1996).
One benefit is that researchers can now focus etiologic investigations at the finer spatial scales where local excesses in cancer morbidity are found on Long Island.
Hungarians have always been fiercely proud of their language, a non Indo-European island in a sea of Slavic, Germanic, and Romance tongues.
Forty-six h later, the mice were euthanized by CO 2 inhalation and their reproductive tracts placed into Waymouth culture medium (Gibco, Grand Island, New York, No.
Fifteen years ago, the United States invaded a Caribbean island to get rid of a Communist government we didn't like.
Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia and the fine grid portions of Alabama, Georgia, Michigan, and Missouri.
… The Maoris believe they are descendants of the tribe of Ephraim, who made their way to the South Pacific islands 3,000 years ago and see a certain similarity between their religion and Judaism."
In this set of two studies we address three questions about breast, lung and colorectal cancers in Long Island.
Much of Rhode Island fronts on Narragansett Bay, hence is called the Ocean State.
According to the NYSDOH study, much of Long Island is included in clusters defined by higher incidence of breast cancer, male and female colorectal cancer, and female lung cancer.
During the 1850s, a Texas lawyer acquired a small herd of cattle on Matagorda Island.
The term "Zone 1 State" means Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, the District ofColumbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas east of Interstate 35, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.
Northwards, the Leeward Island moving up through Antigua to Jamaica are today locked into American television, while southwards the Mona, Trinidad, campus of the University of the West Indies duplicates any run-of-the-mill American municipal college, at least in its language aspects, being blessedly innocent of any courses in Anglo-Saxon or Middle English.
, endemic to Tenerife Island, has ornithophyllous, red flowers, pollinated by generalist native birds and insects.
The only quibble I might have with Jeans's statement is with his use of astonishing , for English was born and nurtured on an island culture that depended heavily on the sea for food, commerce, and transport.
13 The term "United States" is defined in the INA and Part 1626 as "the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands of the United States."
--Richard J. Gellesdirector, University of Rhode Island Family Violence Research ProgramKingston, R.I.
In contrast, the local Moran statistic finds significant clustering only in the southern fork towards Montauk, and identifies a significant clustering of low breast cancer morbidity on western Long Island.
Evenly divided negative and positive reports for this unexpectedly sincere coming-of-age story from the masters of gross-out comedy, the Farrelly brothers ( There's Something About Mary ). Directed by Michael Corrente and based on a novel by Peter Farrelly, it's a standard fish-out-of-water tale (poor kid from small-town Rhode Island gets sent to a snobby boarding school).
1The OTR is made up of northeastern states: Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, the northern portion of Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
From California to the New York Island, and probably Utah as well.
2) Hawaii -Victor Geminiani demonstrated how video conferencing is being used extensively by staff and clients to serve six islands.
On the eve of Monday's withdrawal of Indonesian troops from East Timor, the Straits Times of Singapore reported that in their last days on the island, Indonesian soldiers were seen selling what appeared to be either looted goods or redirected foreign aid at "exorbitant prices" to "needy East Timorese."
0 × 10 6cells/ml) were incubated in 24-well Falcon plates (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) in RPMI-1640 media containing 7% fetal bovine serum (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, 2 mM L-glutamine, 50 mM 2-ME, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 0.01 mM nonessential amino acids, and 10 mM HEPES.
Although when I was sifting through some storage at Moishe's in Long Island City last week, I came across a trunk full of letters from college and high-school days.
The analysis performed by the New York State Department of Health (which used the average cancer incidence/population for New York as a whole as a reference) located significant elevations in breast cancer on Long Island in particular.
During World War II, the Japanese seized most of the Netherlands' island holdings.
The son of a Bethlehem Steel executive in New York, he came to the Bethlehem campus from an affluent upbringing on Long Island.
As the people of East Timor voted Monday on their future, the International Herald Tribune ran a comment from Hong Kong blaming the West for exacerbating the tragedy by its "romantic passion for encouraging the pettiest of nationalisms, not least that of the 800,000 inhabitants of half a small island in an archipelago populated by 200 million."
In a cross-sectional study approved by the institutional review boards of all participating institutions, women with different ethnic backgrounds were recruited at five mammography facilities on the island of Oahu.
Only in the North did laws against intermarriage draw real fire, coming off the books in Maine, Michigan, Ohio, and Rhode Island.
Health care providers and insurance plans need to work with other agencies to develop viable solutions to facilitate access to radiation facilities for women residing in remote locations, such as islands with no radiation facility.
Alas, Windward Island English is far more vulnerable to standardization.
When we used the version of McPromoter that includes analysis of the physical properties of the genomic DNA, as we do with Drosophila , the true positives are much less correlated with CpG islands (61%), and therefore constitute a broader subset of vertebrate promoters.
Today, we could invade a Caribbean island to get rid of a drug dealer we don't like.
In contrast to exon and CpG island density, GC content shows limited variation - in the range 35-55% for most 1 Mb intervals.
There it was again, an island of Slates, dull as dirt but not as cheap: two pairs for $100.
The CpG island density is also in agreement with a report of FISH karyotypes using CpG island probes [ 46] with contrasting fluorescent signal in late-replicating regions.
(Even then, North Carolina and Rhode Island didn't ratify until after George Washington had been sworn in as the first president.)
Briefly, 3 μl of the cDNA was in a reaction of 25 μl that contained final concentrations of 1× Platinum PCR buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 3.5 mM MgCl 2 , 200 μM dNTP, 500 nM each primer (Mega Bases, Chicago, IL, USA), 200 nM FAM-TAMRA probe (Mega Bases, IL, USA), 100 nM Blue 636 (BD 636), 0.05 units platinum Taq DNA polymerase (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA).
The Island of the Colorblind is an odd book, part case study, part travelogue, part weave of digressions, but this oddness is a measure of the personality that unifies it.
The general pattern that there are clusters of higher than expected cancer incidence on Long Island is consistent with other studies of the same area, though the exact locations and shapes of the clusters vary with the methods used by different researchers.
In some communities (though not the rich Long Island ones where judges live), a prison term has become almost a rite of passage, something that young men do.
Taking Long Island as a whole, the average minimum distance from a boundary in female colorectal cancer SMR to the nearest boundary in colorectal OPR is significantly larger (Og P↑ = 0.004) than its expected value.
The sidewalk, they counseled, caused the sea to erode, rather than build, the important dune that, with its beach grass and surrounding "berm colonizers," protects the beach and the north end of the island.
7 murine macrophage-like cells (American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, MD) were cultured at 37°C in a humidified incubator (95% air with 5% CO 2 ) in RPMI-1640 medium with 10% fetal bovine serum, 100 U/ml penicillin and 100 mg/ml streptomycin (GiBcoBRL Grand Island, NY).
Robert Weygand, a Rhode Island Democrat, will decide to stand for reelection to the House rather than run against Lincoln Chafee for the Senate, since the younger Chafee will be much tougher to beat as an incumbent, even an appointed one; c) with Weygand staying put, the Democrats will have to worry about only four open House seats in November 2000, while the Republican open seat total (counting resignations expected in the next month) will soon go up to about 20; d) but Chafee's Rhode Island Senate seat, which Democrats thought they might capture, is now in the probable-Republican column.
President Clinton, in a February 2002 speech to the Long Island Association, said that the United States did not accept a Sudanese offer and take Bin Ladin because there was no indictment.
Despite the offer of matching federal dollars, many states don't try to cover more children: Only Rhode Island, Vermont, Minnesota, Hawaii, and Washington subsidize coverage for children up to 200 percent of poverty or more.
Rhizobia have the ability to transfer genes horizontally to other bacteria, and M. loti carries a 'symbiosis island' which spans approximately 9% of its genome and has been shown to have a role in rhizobial evolution via HGT [ 46 ] . This symbiosis island contains certain genes involved in nodulation and nitrogen-fixation functions, but none of these is a homolog of the nematode HGT candidates we have identified.
(The name is now obsolete and the bird breeds only on Lord Howe Island.)
Total cellular RNA was isolated as described previously [ 11 ] and 1.2 - 5 μg was used for reverse transcription with 5'-T 30 NN-3' primer using Superscript II Rnase H-RT according to the manufacturer's specifications (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY).
Besides the very tight congressional races, the paper says at least five Senate races (New York, North Carolina, Kentucky, Nevada and Wisconsin) and ten gubernatorial contests (Maryland, Nevada, Hawaii, Georgia, South Carolina, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Iowa, Ohio and Rhode Island) could easily come out either way.
, an endemic of the Canary Islands, presents an entomophylous (‘insect-loving’) and an ornithophyllous (‘bird-loving’) subspecies (Figure 2) that differ in flower colour: 
He filmed in and around Brooklyn's Lincoln High, which is also the setting of Darcy Frey's superb book The Last Shot: City Streets, Basketball Dreams , an equally panoramic but more grounded portrait of the game's meaning to the denizens of the Coney Island projects.
Under the scan statistic, all of eastern and most of western Suffolk are declared a cluster, as are substantial portions of Nassau, and the western portions of Long Island.
So in wanders Roman I to announce that he has been held prisoner on an island for the last five years and--wait a minute, who's this other guy?
We observed that 45% of the gene units were associated with CpG islands (defined as 10 kb upstream or within the gene).
As she raised their three daughters and moved from Washington to Long Island and back in the service of her husband's rather lackluster career in journalism, Albright inched her way toward a Ph.D. under Columbia University Professor Zbigniew Brzezinski.
First, the differences between cluster detection methods already used to analyze Long Island data illustrate the notion of a cluster is meaningless without a precise description of the statistical test and its expectations.
Clinton announced Friday that the drought was the worst in history for the agriculture of Maryland, New Jersey, Delaware, and Rhode Island.
Before national implementation of the Nursing Home Quality Initiative in November 2002, CMS conducted a pilot in six states: Colorado, Florida, Maryland, Ohio, Rhode Island, and Washington.
This is clearly not a transliteration but a translation: it literally means ice island, with the second element apparently mistranslating the Icelandic name for the country, Īsland ice land as island.
So, for example, many island bird species are threatened, like the kagu of New Caledonia, but British seabird populations, like puffins, are booming.
Returning to those playful ceramic maps of the world, one notices that the artist has dipped his brush in blue and painted the profile of Fuji on the main island of Japan.
All cultures were grown in serum-free Neurobasal ™medium (2 ml per dish) supplemented with B27 (Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY; 50:1 v/v), 0.5 mM L-glutamine (Sigma) and 100 units/ml penicillin-streptomycin (Gibco; Catalog No.
Buchanan tells Snow that we should arm Taiwan but not necessarily declare war on China if it invades the island.
By using several different methods - scan statistic, boundary analysis, local Moran - one is able to derive a more complete understanding of geographic variation in cancer morbidity on Long Island.
If it does, it will probably bury the island (and the few thousand inhabitants who remain) in lava and ash.
The Customs Service retains an amount equal to the estimated cost of collecting these duties, including all costs of operations in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and an allocation of overhead; it transfers the remainder to the Treasury, which, in turn, transfers the collections to Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands.
The two empires agreed to divide the island, with the Portuguese ruling the eastern half and the Dutch the western.
On one hand, there is increasing and rather convincing observational and experimental data underscoring the beneficial effects of marine fish consumption on fetal growth and gestation [ 1 2 3 ] . On the other hand, consumption of environmentally contaminated fish has been associated with decrements in gestation and birth weight in some studies [ 4 5 6 ] . Animal evidence suggests that Rhesus monkeys, rats and mice exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in utero have reductions in length of gestation and growth [ 7 8 9 ] . The results from accidental environmental exposures also report adverse effects on birth size and ectodermal manifestations among fetuses to various polyhalogenated hydrocarbons [ 10 11 ] . One occupational study has reported a negative relation between PCB exposure and infant birth weight, which no longer remained significant after adjusting for gestation and other variables related to birth weight [ 12 ] . Results from a birth cohort study in the Faroe Islands, a community with a high intake of marine fish, whale meat and blubber, supported a relation between marine fatty acids and diminished birth weight for gestation, but the effects were not attributed to the mercury or PCB exposure [ 13 ] .
These writers, in Walcott's view, have managed to see the islands as they are--in all their "visual surprise"--and not as some fragment or falling-off from European achievements.
The cultures were maintained in Minimum Essential Medium (MEM, GibcoBRL, Grand Island, NY) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Sigma, St. Louis, MO), 1.4 mM glutamine (GibcoBRL, Grand Island, NY) and 20 μM 2-mercaptoethanol (Sigma, St. Louis, MO).
"The good reputation of the island will be immeasurably enhanced, if we can cast off the negative impression of conflict, as President Clinton has pointed out," Ahern said.
A total of 48,000 CpG islands were found on the assembly using standard criteria [ 45] (see Figure 1legend), with a median length of 336 bp.
In June 1984 I moved from Ottawa to Victoria, on Vancouver Island, where I now enjoy genteel retirement.
The pattern of such promoter methylation has been noted to be non-random in various tumor types, while certain genes are commonly methylated in diverse tumor types [ 10 11 ] . The extent of aberrant promoter hypermethylation and its association with loss of gene function in cancer suggests that CpG island methylation is an important mechanism in inactivating tumor suppressor genes (TSGs).
Michael Forbes of New York--who, according to press reports, has been treated as a nonperson by his GOP colleagues since he voted against the re-election of Newt Gingrich as speaker--bleats like a goat when the SBA field office in his Long Island district is threatened.
Hence, the custodial transfer to Treasury (for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands) and the amount retained by Customs should be shown as separate components of the disposition of the revenue from customs duties.
On the tiny island nation of St. Kitts, a cocaine smuggler named Charles "Little Nut" Miller threatened to murder American veterinary students at the island's university unless the United States dropped its efforts to extradite him.
In addition to stage at diagnosis and size of tumor, we examined several other variables that were possible determinants in the utilization of BCS vs. mastectomy in early stage breast cancer, including age at diagnosis, ethnicity, island of residence, and marital status.
2: "What is unusual about the sheep on the Scottish island of Foula?
One microgram of RNA was reverse transcribed to complementary (c)DNA using 200U Moloney murine leukemia virua (M-MLV) reverse transcriptase (GIBCO BRL Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 1U RNAse inhibitor (5 Prime 3 Prime, Boulder, CO, USA) and 20 pmol oligo dT primer in a total volume of 20 μl.
Love and Death on Long Island
38 Although, in this case the equipment did not have to be erected adjacent to an operating boiler, the erection included demolishing and erecting a complete boiler island and demolishing the existing electrostatic precipitator.
The possibility of an open conflict with Indonesia cannot be ruled out, particularly if pro-integration militias launch an attack from the western half of the island of Timor."
Promoter methylation has been well recognized as an important epigenetic change in the development of cancer [ 1 ] . Normally, CpG islands in the promoter regions of a number of genes are present in an unmethylated state [ 2 ] . Aberrant methylation of CpG islands in promoters is characteristic of several genes in cancer leading to loss of gene expression.
One of the most perfect garden rooms in our country, and perhaps the most simple, is at the Bloedel Reserve, formerly a private estate, on Bainbridge Island near Seattle.
All cells were maintained in RPMI complete media (10 % fetal bovine serum, 50 units/ml penicillin G and 50 mg/ml streptomycin; Gibco BRL Grand Island, NY).
In Crusoe's Island (1965), he is both Robinson Crusoe and "Friday's progeny,/ The brood of Crusoe's slave."
In these randomizations, the observed SMR values were randomized across the ZIP codes of Long Island.
The statue was closed to the general public, and only party guests were allowed on the two Statue of Liberty ferries that went to the island and came back continuously all night.
Satellite blocks of 20 kilobases (kb) to 1 Mb are interrupted by 'islands' of 5-50 kb of complex sequences that contain a high density of transposable elements [ 22, 28, 29, 30].
This is clearly not a transliteration but a translation: it literally means ice island, with the second element apparently mistranslating the Icelandic name for the country, Īsland ice land as island.
Biosource International, Rockville, MD, and GIBCO/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY.
But here in America, to be creeped out by unwanted mass transit eroticism shoved at you from every direction, you must make do with loudmouthed cell phone sex on the Long Island Railroad.
Given the concern and the apparent elevation of cancer rates on Long Island, we focused our study on Nassau, Queens, and Suffolk counties, the easternmost three counties on Long Island.
This was apparently in tribute not to Eisenhower but to John Chafee, an Eisenhowerish Republican senator from Rhode Island, who had sponsored the bill to rename the OEOB, as it's known, shortly before he died on Oct. 26.
Together with the L-threonine aldolase homolog candidate, these three genes are found within 257 kb of each other, a distance that represents only 3.65% of the M. loti chromosome, which is less than half the size of the symbiosis island.
The past slips into you finally.Generations kept these secrets.Islands fell asleep looking at the sea.The one who ruled you above will rule youbelow, taking you down to show you the cut part of the wheat.Probably she was earth, your hunger was beautiful,her hunger was beautiful,but what do you really know?
Our randomization approach "resampled" the data under the null hypothesis that a cancer incidence observed in a Long Island ZIP code is equally likely to occur in any other Long Island ZIP code.
Alex Ross' "Island of Lost Auteurs" suffers from deficiencies that his just verdict on the latest film cannot alleviate.
El Niño is the best known climatic event affecting climate between years, and some research already suggests that there is a relationship between the timing of dengue epidemics and El Niño in the Pacific Islands and in other countries.
"Passengers on the Staten Island ferry, left, were bundled up against the bitter cold yesterday.
Oocytes were transferred into tubes containing Hepes-buffered TCM-199 (Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY) supplemented with 0.57 mM cysteine, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (Sigma), 100 IU/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, 0.25 ng/ml amphotericin, 0.01 IU/ml porcine FSH (Sioux Biochemicals, Sioux Center, IA), 0.01 IU/ml porcine LH (Sioux Biochemicals) and 0.1% (w:v) polyvinyl alcohol (maturation medium) [ 50], and shipped to the laboratory overnight (20-24 h) at 38.
So, it was with particular pleasure that today, as I do every day, I padded across the floors of my suburban Long Island home in my color-coordinated L.L.
While both the local Moran and scan statistics assess statistical significance of a cluster relative to the morbidity for New York state as a whole, we consider only Long Island ZIP codes in the local Moran analysis, while the NYS scan analysis considers ZIP codes for all of New York state.
The proprietorial use of the adjective Tasmanian — found in compounds like Tasmanian kingfish, Tasmanian pink-eye (a potato), Tasmanian scallop (the shellfish, not, as in New South Wales, a slice of fried potato), and Tasmanian red (an apple)—plays on an ostensible difference in the island produce, as does the much more audacious hijacking of Atlantic in Tasmanian Atlantic salmon (farmed Tasmanian salmon).
Given the concern and the apparent elevation of cancer rates on Long Island, we focused our study on Nassau, Queens, and Suffolk counties, the easternmost three counties on Long Island.
D. Charlie Rose, Long Island University
The techniques employed by the local Moran and boundary techniques evaluate geographic relationships using the ZIP code and census geography of Long Island.
Democrat Eric Vitaliano, who has been a state-assembly member for many years, took credit for reducing the cost for Staten Island residents, who get discounts of up to 70 percent on the $7 round-trip toll (and who can ride to Manhattan at no charge on the Staten Island Ferry).
As they approached the island, the small British population created a number of ruses to convince the Spanish that Bermuda was well defended; two salvos fired from a cannon went across the bay.
[ 47] suggest that myosin VIII could act to bring islands of membrane plate material together or could trigger exocytosis of new cell wall material, or alternatively as an anchor for actin along the transverse walls.
"Well, they tempt me to go back to an island where there are more dinosaurs."
A little inland from San Andrés and Sauces is the Bosque de Los Tilos, the largest wooded area in the whole Canary Islands and designated a “Biosphere Reserve” under the protection of UNESCO.
Nowhere is this problem more evident than in the ecotourist paradise of the Galápagos Islands (Figure 2), where a small minority of fishermen is coming into conflict with conservation aims with increasing regularity (Box 1).
Those early photographers must not have believed their luck at finding hundreds of brick and steel towers jammed together for them on a little island, with new ones blasting up out of the ground like constructivist flowers every day.
Now turned back to the state, the island is littered with unexploded bombs.
Genomic intervals residing in R bands were significantly richer in exons, CpG islands, GC content, Alu repeats and minisatellites than those in G bands.
There are coral reefs off the island which are dying because the millions of Americans on holiday there urinate in the water so much that, at peak flow, the ocean surrounding the reefs becomes toxic.
The Dutch language gave the vast polyglot archipelago a sense of unity, even among islands that had been bitter enemies for centuries.
Residences at birth and before age 21 years were grouped into eight broad geographic regions based on the geographic variation of breast cancer mortality as shown in the NCI's Atlas of Cancer Mortality [ 15 ] . These regions were Northeast (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Washington, DC, Rhode Island, and Maryland); Great Lakes (Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio); Plains (North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Montana); South (Oklahoma, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Texas); West (Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, Alaska, and Hawaii); Northwest (Washington, Oregon, and Nevada); California; and not in the USA.
Australia's floating dollar has apparently allowed the island continent to sail almost unscathed through the Asian crisis.
Not surprisingly, when Long Island is considered in its entirety the boundaries in lung male cancer incidence are neither significantly long nor significantly fragmented under subboundary analysis (Table 5).
Mackinaw, the name of the island at the junction of Lakes Huron and Michigan, according to one explanation at least, was a shortening of Michili-mackinac, meaning `great turtle.
The central region of Honshu (Japan’s main island), Chubu stretches northeast from Kansai across the Hida, Kiso, and Akaishi mountains — known collectively as the Japan Alps — to the plains of the north coast and the Sea of Japan.
States in this category include California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, West Virginia, and Wyoming.
They run right over your face when you're in a sleeping bag," says Gary Davis, a biologist at Channel Islands National Park--referring either to the Wayans brothers scavenging for gags or to deer mice infested with hantavirus.
Most of the island’s 40,000 people live here and the towns continue to develop.
Also in attendance were representatives from the Puerto Rico, Guam and Virgin Islands programs.
Exotic and remote as this island world was, it had a special appeal for late 19 th century Europeans and Americans.
Jaume I (1213–1276), known as “the Conqueror,” consolidated control over the Balearic Islands and claimed Valencia.
For each PCR run, a master mixture was prepared on ice with 1× Platinum PCR buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 1.5 mM MgCl 2 , 0.2 mM of each deoxynucleoside triphosphate, 0.2 μM each primer, 2.5 units platinum Taq DNA polymerase (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA).
The indigenous flora and fauna likewise have been carefully marketed to tourists as different : the Tasmanian tiger (now probably extinct) lives in legend and forlorn reaches of the remotest parts of the island, the Tasmanian devil (a carnivorous marsupial of undeniably fierce appearance) in tired zoos and nature parks where nonexclusive animals like the kangaroo and koala share the honors with a remarkable range of diminutive marsupials genuinely peculiar to Tassie, which have added value in an age that cultivates the notion of wilderness.
By starting at the soft underbelly, the 16,000 troops of General Nelson A. Miles gained control of the island in less than three weeks.
with regard to Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland,Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, the period May 1 through September 30 for each year starting in 2003; and
At the risk of making a one-way trip to Rikers Island ("I must take the Fifth about my wine purchases, senator"), I spent a couple of weeks this summer surfing the Web for vino.
Off the coast to the south of St. David’s Island is smaller Nonsuch Island, once a quarantine station for sufferers of yellow fever.
where I i is the statistic for ZIP code i, z i is the difference between the SMR at i and the mean SMR for Long Island, z j is the difference between the SMR at j and the mean for Long Island.
(Senator Torricelli, when he's not dating glamourpusses, is chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee); e) unless, that is, Torricelli can prevail on Rhode Island Rep.
In this chapter, we journey clockwise around the island, starting at Montego Bay on the northwest coast.
In a combined model with all independent variables in a logistic regression, island of residence remained the only significant predictor of BCS in this population.
These zephyr-borne estimates went way up after the Grucci fireworks barge floated between Liberty Island and the skyline with an electric sign on it that said Talk (did I forget to say that this was Tina Brown's party for her new magazine, Talk ?) and hurled into the black sky a literally earth-shaking barrage of pyrotechnics.
RNA was isolated from 50 mg of the joint powder with 1 ml Trizol reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY, USA).
The consensus among the papers is that the Japanese mishap is nowhere near as environmentally threatening as either the meltdown at Three Mile Island or the far worse Chernobyl catastrophe.
With hundreds of unpopulated islands and dozens of empty beaches surrounded by dozens of shallow channels and sounds the Bahamas are paradise for sailors.
The specific island of residence was coded in the HTR, but since close to 80% of the population resides on Oahu [ 25 ] , we classified residence as either Oahu or non-Oahu.
He recently purchased 387 acres on one of the San Juan Islands that is the site of Camp Nor'Wester, a venerated children's summer retreat.
Hydrofoils for the Saronic islands depart from Quay I at Piraeus Harbor.
The following criteria were used to identify gene boundaries: known 5' or 3' UTR sequences in UTR-DB; full-length cDNAs in HTDB; exons in partial ORFs as possible boundaries of coding regions; exons without continuous ORFs as additional UTR sequences; CpG islands; and gene boundaries predicted by Genscan.
One state, Rhode Island, wasn't represented at all.
A statue of the patron saint of Xiamen, Koxinga (Zheng Chenggong), stands on the tip of the island.
They trained bees to forage at a feeder on a boat, which was paddled increasing distances from the hive, until it reached an island.
This sort of jingoism is unworthy of "News Quiz" players, who might charitably have pointed out how graciously the English have transformed themselves from a ruthless imperial power into a vast island museum that still believes itself to be a ruthless imperial power.
The island fails to live up to its colorful past.
First, clusters of statistically significant high and low lung cancer incidences were identified separately for both males and females [ 1 ] . Both males and females demonstrated a large cluster of high lung cancer incidence in central Long Island that corresponded approximately, in both geographic extent and location, to a broad zone of high overall lung cancer risk as predicted by the air toxics estimates.
from the enchanted, irradiated island of childhood" (Richard Corliss, Time ). Critics appreciate its avoidance of hackneyed gender politics, and its presentation of the boy's colorful, cartoonlike fantasies.
The central issue that had drawn Spain and the United States into war — Cuba’s struggle for independence — was resolved in that island’s favor: Cuba’s freedom was guaranteed by the Paris Treaty of 1898.
During these calls, staff at Rhode Island Quality Partners (the QIO for Rhode Island and the lead QIO for the pilot) collected lessons learned and comments from QIOs, national trade organizations, and CMS.
Here the convict is Jake Shuttlesworth (Denzel Washington), and his mission is to go into the projects of Coney Island, where his son Jesus (played by the 22-year-old Milwaukee Bucks guard Ray Allen) is a high-school basketball player of near divine abilities.
It now looks out towards the pleasure palaces of Paradise Island.
Cell culture reagents and enzymes including MEM, HAM's F12, D-valine, dialyzed fetal calf serum, Pronase and DNase I are from Life Technologies (Grand Island, NY) except as noted.
Carolyn McCarthy, who launched a political career after her husband was killed by a crazed gunman on a Long Island commuter train.
The island has only two hotels, but a well-organized dive center runs a professional program for those who want to explore the seas off the island.
“Traditional fishery models assumed that a fishery was a homogenous thing—like bacteria in a bottle—rather than a spatially diverse system,” says Pierre Kleiber, a fisheries biologist with the Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center of the NMFS (Honolulu, Hawaii, United States).
"It has told the Royal Forestry Department that it would plant some 100 coconut trees on the national park island for the filming," the Nation said.
Do visit the church to see its splendid iconostasis, considered the best on the island.
Only the Island of Hawaii and Maui have a radiation facility, but they are hard to reach from many parts of the islands.
After presenting various systems of communication (signs, pictographs, rebuses, shorthand, tallies, Babylonian clay tokens, Peruvian quipus), Robinson discusses such ancient and now defunct but decipherable writing systems as Sumerian cuneiform, Egyptian hieroglyphs, Minoan Greek Linear B, and Mayan glyphs; ditto some of the more outstanding conundra awaiting decipherment--Cretan Linear A, Proto-Elamite, Etruscan, and the Easter Island and Indus scripts.
There is also the Beat Retreat Ceremony, where the Band and Corps of Drums of the Bermuda Regiment and the Bermuda Islands Pipe Band, in full military dress, march the street to recreate a centuries-old ceremony.
This result is consistent with the map of OPR that shows a broad area of elevated risk in central Long Island.
An expert predicts that the research could relegate today's Native Americans to "just another Ellis Island group" and threaten their hard-won legal rights.
The Canaries were not spared the horrors of the war (mass Republican executions took place in the aptly named Barranco del Infierno, the Gorge of Hell, on Tenerife), but on the whole the islands prospered during Franco’s period of dictatorship, which provided for added protection to their free-port status.
25%)-EDTA (1 mM) and trypan blue were purchased from GIBCO-BRL (Grand Island, NY); certified heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS) was obtained from Hyclone (Logan, UT); mouse anti-rat CD11b/c monoclonal antibody (OX-42) and rabbit anti-glutamate receptor (GluR4) polyclonal antibody were purchased from Pharmingen (San Diego, CA).
Movie -- Love and Death on Long Island ;
From here you can see north along the beach; the only blot on the landscape is the unfinished Novo Mondo hotel — a notorious, 8-story white elephant completely out of proportion with the rest of the island.
A more striking result is the expected positive correlation among exons, CpG islands, GC content and minisatellites, which track each other closely on most chromosomes.
"I'm the king of the world and the lord of Monkey Island!"
If you tire of the beach, there are organized excursions to every conceivable point of interest on the island — including Havana, an hour and a half away.
While the NYSDOH provides information on the entire state, we focus on the 214 ZIP codes within Nassau, Queens and Suffolk County on Long Island.
Their arena is Lake Washington, the 18-mile-long moat that separates Seattle from the Eastside locales of Bellevue, Mercer Island, Kirkland, and Redmond--global headquarters of  Slate . The transition of Lake Washington from a decent water-skiing pond into something Gatsbyesque and gawk-worthy has been so dramatic that now some people visit the Northwest for the sole purpose of staring at all the man-made creations on and around the lake.
Promoter methylation has been well recognized as an important epigenetic change in the development of cancer [ 1 ] . Normally, CpG islands in the promoter regions of a number of genes are present in an unmethylated state [ 2 ] . Aberrant methylation of CpG islands in promoters is characteristic of several genes in cancer leading to loss of gene expression.
"I'm the king of the world and the lord of Monkey Island!"
A succession of short-lived coalition governments wrestled with the problems posed by separatist movements of the various island groups, dislocation caused by war and its aftermath, a badly neglected infrastructure, and the colo-nial legacy of over-exploited plantations.
At 64% sensitivity, 82% of the true predictions by McPromoter are located within CpG islands, and the correlation gets stronger as the specificity increases.
(Streisand produced the just-aired tv-movie about the Long Island Railroad Massacre of a couple years ago and Heston didn't like it.)
Indian tribes including the Siboney from Central and South America had lived on the island since at least 1000 b.c.
It addresses whether there are statistically significant clusters of cancer on Long Island.
Once upon a time there was a densely populated island nation, which, despite its lack of natural resources, had managed through hard work and ingenuity to build itself into one of the world's major industrial powers.
The northernmost (called most appropriately Harbour Road) leads along the south shore of Hamilton Harbour, with views of the islands that lie scattered in Great Sound and make navigation into the cruise port so tricky.
A large cluster in south central Long Island is composed of four local clusters centered on Ronkonkama (11779), Central Islip (11722), Islip Terrace (11752), and East Islip (11730).
Just a short note to get the ball rolling this morning: I know this is a national forum and all, but since the other Breakfast Table participants I've read seemed to have no qualms about discussing what was in their local news (Long Island politics, the New York Senate race, etc.), I figured I'd follow suit.
Pick almost any island or islet here for tremendous possibilities.
Thus the null hypothesis for the local Moran analysis is no spatial structure in breast cancer incidence in Long Island, whereas the null hypothesis for the scan statistic is no spatial structure in breast cancer incidence in all of New York State.
Those existential speculations don't derive from the screenplay's source, an archetypal but otherwise down-to-earth 1962 novel by James Jones (who also wrote From Here to Eternity ) about the American invasion of the South Pacific island of Guadalcanal.
They officially became the first men to set foot on the heavily forested island, naming it Ilha da Madeira, “Island of Timber. ”
For each PCR run, a master mixture was prepared on ice with 1× Platinum PCR buffer (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 1.5 mM MgCl 2 , 0.2 mM of each deoxynucleoside triphosphate, 0.2 μM each primer, 2.5 units platinum Taq DNA polymerase (Gibco/Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA).
Book -- Island of the Colorblind , by Oliver Sacks;
From medieval mountain villages and the dramatic lunar landscape of Mallorca’s Formentor promontory to mysterious prehistoric settlements and isolated beaches accessible only by foot on Menorca, the islands abound with sights that are anything but blandly international.
Residence on outer islands did not explain this observation.
If it's sex you must talk about, talk about the pope standing on an island and coming out against birth control (again).
She nicknamed Mallorca “Monkey Island. ”
60% of the 5' ends of known genes on chromosome 22 are located within CpG islands, regions in the genome that are not depleted of CG dinucleotides and are associated with an open chromatin structure [ 38].
Informed of the problem, Robert Vanderslice, head of the Rhode Island Department of Health, swiftly ordered an interagency urban rivers team to post the bilingual signs, put on a slide show, and hand out brochures.
More Hong Kong Island Sights
A nonrandom pattern of promoter hypermethylation has been noted in specific genes in specific tumor types, although some genes are commonly methylated in diverse tumors [ 3 4 ] . The extent of aberrant promoter hypermethylation and its association with loss of gene function in cancer suggests that CpG island methylation is an important mechanism in inactivating tumor suppressor genes (TSGs).
The name dollar is used by sixteen more countries: Australia, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Brunei, Fiji, Guyana, Hong Kong, Jamaica, Liberia, New Zealand, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Taiwan, Trinidad and Tobago, and Zimbabwe.
The bridge that connects Somerset Island and its parish of Sandys (pronounced “Sands”) to the main island is quite short.
The cultures were maintained in Minimum Essential Medium (MEM, GibcoBRL, Grand Island, NY) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Sigma, St. Louis, MO), 1.4 mM glutamine (GibcoBRL, Grand Island, NY) and 20 μM 2-mercaptoethanol (Sigma, St. Louis, MO).
Of the mighty hundred-citied island of Crete
Transcriptional silencing of genes resulting from DNA hypermethylation of CpG islands is reversed by treatment of the hypo-methylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in a dose and duration-dependent manner.
The exception, of course, is in small towns or isolated locales (e.g., Liberty Island) where a forgettable restaurant or hotel might be the only option.
East End: St. George’s and St. David’s Islands
It is possible however, that our in silico approach may have missed some genes, in particular those with small ORFs and/or large 5-prime and/or 3-prime UTRs [ 39 ] . As dbEST expands over the next few years, new genes may be identified with repeated in silico searches, or with biophysical approaches such as cDNA hybridization [ 40 ] , exon trapping [ 41 ] and amplification [ 42 ] , or by identification of evolutionary conserved sequences [ 43 ] and HTF islands [ 44 ] .
As for the pious hope that the Internal Revenue Service will be able to police the new tax breaks--to assure that all claimants are truly residents of the district and that the nation's capital has not become a flagrant tax haven--well, the IRS has a better chance here than in the Cayman Islands.
Eleven villages were buried forever and many of the people left the island for Gran Canaria.
The MSP method detects only methylation of full-length CpG islands and cannot identify partial methylation of the promoters.
The characters are photographed iconically, as in an Eisenstein film: the spiritually crippled black dad with his modest Afro against the weather-beaten relic of a Coney Island ride, for example.
Thousand Islands
We believe this result is consistent with an overall pattern of boundary fragmentation in western Long Island, and cohesive boundaries around the large-scale clusters occurring on mid- to eastern Long Island.
It's played amid the cornfields of the Midwest by lanky boys with flaxen hair and 'twixt the housing projects by the troubled shores of Coney Island, where otherwise powerless young African-Americans bestride the courts like colossi.
The island was recaptured after a terrible siege of Iráklion by Byzantine commander Nikephóros Phokás.
one of the 48 contiguous States, Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, theCommonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; or
The apple industry provides another example: apple chewer is explicable as a sign of plenty, but apple carver is the fruit of a somewhat desperate attempt to provide entertainment; and Apple Island or Isle is part now of a deliberately created nostalgia for a past in which there was once a thriving export industry.
The museum, which is south of the center on Jalan Banjar Tilar Negara, gives an overview of the island’s culture, as well as its unique and volatile ecology.
The T cell lines HPB-ALL and CEM were maintained in complete media (RPMI-1640 supplemented with 10% FBS; 10 U/ml of both penicillin and streptomycin; and 1 mM L-Glutamine, all from Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY).
..Shetland Islands.”
In ancient times, they sat in a circle (cyclos) around the sacred island of Delos, and their name has carried through into modern times.
Lastly, revenue and spending related to Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and other U.S. territories are counted in the federal unified budget but not in NIPA.
Witness the bumper-sticker that reads, In Rhode Island Drunk Drivers get Court.
East from here, the coastal road is one of the island’s star attractions.
However, the standardized morbidity ratio (SMR) is the ratio of the diagnoses in Long Island ZIP codes divided by the expected value calculated from New York State averages.
Nelson W. Aldrich of Rhode Island, whom Lincoln Steffens once called "the arch-representative of protected, privileged business."
Ranches (ranchos) and stables are scattered over both islands, so you can hire a mount and go off horseback riding.
The HTR record contains demographic characteristics such as age, ethnicity, marital status, island of residence, as well as information on tumor size, extent of disease, lymph node involvement, and tumor grade.
White and cobalt blue, these porcelain dishes have as their decoration fanciful maps of the world, with the islands of Japan in the center.
A ferry links Pfaueninsel (Peacock Island), a delightfully tranquil nature reserve in the Havel, towards the northern edge of Berliner Forst.
Three local clusters of low SMR values were identified, centering on Great Neck (ZIP 11024), Roslyn (11576), and Huntington (11743), all in the northwest portion of Long Island (Figure 5, Table 5).
Movie -- Love and Death on Long Island ;
The island has only two hotels, but a well-organized dive center runs a professional program for those who want to explore the seas off the island.
This larger cluster is composed of 9 significant local clusters, centered on Farmingville (11738), Coram (11727), Miller Place (11764), Middle Island (11953), Mastic (11950), Mastic Beach (11951), Shirley (11967), Medford (11763), and Sayville (11782).
The Buenos Aires Herald is all abuzz over a daring one-man invasion of the Malvinas Islands (known in Britain as the Falklands, site of a 10 week war that killed 1,000 military personnel).
Most of the Out Islands are sparsely populated, and the traditional ways of island life are much more prevalent than they are on the two main islands.
In the univariate models (Table 1), we found that tumor size and grade, island of residence, age, and stage at diagnosis were predictors of breast cancer treatment.
The seven-part title poem is both an elegy for her and a poem about her island, Walcott's "mother-country."
Late the following year an immense hurricane sent a tidal wave over Hog Island (today Paradise Island), smashing Nassau’s flimsy buildings and ruining crops.
This list by no means constitutes an exhaustive list of potential carcinogens on Long Island.
The geographic center of Lanzarote lies 9 km (51⁄2 miles) northwest of the capital at Mozaga, focal point of the island’s viniculture.
Thus while overlap avoidance occurs on the scale of Long Island as a whole, further investigation is needed to evaluate whether overlap occurs specifically in urban areas where there is a great deal of local scale variation in colorectal OPR.
In the comic strip Prince Valiant , whose captions are consistently well written (and no wonder: their author is John Cullen Murphy), there was in the 5 May 1996 sequence: Cormac's arrival was watched... by the island's most populous inhabitants.
Wherever you go in Jamaica — from the tropical coasts to the rugged interior to the secluded eastern tip of the island — you’ll find fascinating people and landscapes.
For the relative opulence of their way of life, the Kwakiutl of British Columbia’s Pacific coast on and around Vancouver Island count among the aristocrats of Canadian native peoples.
The 700 islands and numerous smaller cays (pronounced “keys”) that comprise this semitropical archipelago start 55 miles (90 km) east of Palm Beach, Florida, and arc 600 miles (970 km) southeast toward eastern Cuba and Haiti, like a series of stepping stones linking North America with the Caribbean.
The boats that ply the route from Bangsal to the islands wait for a full load of 15 to 20 people.
When Columbus sighted this island he stated that it was the most beautiful that he had ever seen.
Building of the original fortress began in 1719, six years after the Treaty of Utrecht had left the French only Cape Breton Island.
Completely bilingual, he was determined to forge Anglo- and French-Canadians into one nation, comparing them to the waters of the Ottawa river and Great Lakes meeting below the island of Montréal: “parallel, separate, distinguishable, and yet one stream, flowing within the same banks.”
The shopping mecca of the Caribbean, St. Thomas is the most densely populated of the three US Virgin Islands (the others are St. John and St. Croix).
But it is worth the walk across the small drawbridge and over the lagoon, onto the small island that the castle used to deter pirates.
The second walk is one of the island’s most popular levada trails.
The Ottoman Turks pushed Venetian and other forces from Asia Minor, through the islands of the Aegean, until they had left the Greek mainland.
A short drive, brisk walk, or morning jog takes you 3 km (2 miles) to the Cap de Sa Mola, the most southwesterly point o n the island, with its superb views of sheer cliffs and sparkling sea.
Harbour Island, called “Briland” by the locals, sits off the northeastern corner of the main island.
The 190-km (118-mile) circuit follows the north shore, with its barrier islands, windswept dunes, red cliffs, and salt marshes, and around to the Northumberland Strait.
The river heads due north, as does the road — straight across the island to São Vicente — making the ancient town of Ribeira Brava (established in 1440) an important junction.
The two main islands in the Archipiélago de los Canarreos, south of western Cuba, could not be more different.
Stanley was once one of the main fishing villages on Hong Kong Island.
Bars with views and live music include Sky Lounge in the Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Tsim Sha Tsui; and Cyrano in the Island Shangri-La in Pacific Place.
More Indian relics, plus old Spanish coins and tiles, can be viewed in the Ponce de León Museum at Caparra, 4 miles (61⁄2 km) west of San Juan on Route 2. Alongside this small white museum are the ruins of the house Ponce de León built and from which he directed the colonization of the island.
By 1822, the first registration counted 10,808 slaves on the 17 inhabited islands or island clusters.
It was important to find a new island location where they could recreate the site, and one was found only 300 m (900 ft) north of the original setting.
Within the Cyclades, Dodecanese, and Sporades island groups, there are certain towns that serve as hubs for travel to and from other islands within each group.
Most of the major settlements lie along the eastern side of the island.
In 1877, France bought back Saint-Barthélemy from Sweden for 320,000 gold francs (Louis XVI having ceded the little island 93 years earlier to his friend King Gustav III in return for duty-free trading rights in Gothenburg).
A total of only 600 people live in the island’s few small settlements, and the chief activity seems to be sitting under the large fig tree on the harbor front and gossiping.
This not only surprised the old school but ushered in a new era full of opportunity for development as the island keeps up with a rapidly changing world.
By a.d. 300, a new and larger wave of Amerindians from the Orinoco basin settled on islands throughout the Caribbean.
However, the following year, ambitious, young Captain Juan de Grijalva discovered the island of Cozumel and skirted the coast of the peninsula, hearing tales from the Indians of the great civilization of the Aztecs.
The first exports were made in the 1880s and the banana has continued to be a mainstay of the islands’ economy.
Molokai: The immense, sheer seacliffs of this rugged, sparsely-populated island are the setting for the leper colony founded by Father Damien at Kalaupapa, which can be reached by mule (see page 77).
There is also a short video presentation called “Bermuda: Centre of the Atlantic,” which tells the story of the founding and development of the island.
Performances of classical Greek theater are found on some islands.
The island’s fine church, Saint-Louis-en-l’Ile, is as elegant as the mansions — bright and airy with a golden light illuminating an attractive collection of Dutch, Flemish, and Italian 16th- and 17th-century art and some superb tapestries from the 12th century.
The Andros Island Bonefishing Lodge is a prime center for bonefishing expeditions (Tel.
It is the East Coast’s gay mecca (along with the Hamptons, and Cherry Grove and the Pines on Fire Island).
Every island has its own individual character, forged by a unique history and development, in fact the Bahamas could be said to be several different holiday experiences in one country, so it’s important to choose your island carefully to get the kind of holiday you want.
In the meantime, if a lounge chair by the pool just can’t compare, you’ll have to follow in the wake of Columbus and dock on the neighboring island of Porto Santo, a popular day trip.
The Ile Saint-Louis is an enchanted self-contained island of gracious living, long popular with the more affluent gentry and celebrities of Paris.
The summer season grows longer every year, and significant stretches of both islands are still packed with merrymakers and families delighting in the traditional Mediterranean island vacation.
However, there’s no denying that this area has just about everything needed for a perfect holiday, whether you want to do nothing but sit on a beach, dive and snorkel along the coral reefs, enjoy sports, or explore the history and culture of the island.
Others are far more exciting for divers, including Harrington Sound, the South Shore reef wall, and the wreck of the Vixen (just off Somerset Long Bay on Somerset Island).
Shark Reef near Stella Maris is the most famous area in the islands for close encounters with that most feared aquatic creature.
Neolithic islanders lived in caves and rock shelters, examples of which can still be seen on both Mallorca and Menorca, and hunted the only large animal on the islands, a type of mountain goat, now extinct.
What remains today is the outer rim of the original circular island.
The dramatic landscapes of the Georgian Bay Islands National Park, a particular favorite of the Group of Seven, now attract fishermen, scuba divers, and other watersports enthusiasts.
19 song taught to birds in Aldous Huxley's Island
and uh there's and island right off that called Matagorda and uh you can take a ferry boat out there and it's uh completely uh pretty much anyway complete wilderness island
We assessed 92 GCT DNAs representing all histologic subsets of NSGCT, and SGCT, and four normal testes for methylation status of CpG islands of 21 gene promoters by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) (Fig.
What mostly characterizes Windward Island speech could be called a kind of linguistic laziness, and this has considerable charm, as a lot of laziness can.
Wendell and Cass, two penguins at the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, Brooklyn, live in a soap opera world of seduction and intrigue.
yeah yeah we generate one of our our biggest electrical plants in Rhode Island uses coal to uh generate electricity um
Thus Americans are blamed when Israelis fight with Palestinians, when Russians fight with Chechens, when Indians fight with Kashmiri Muslims, and when the Philippine government fights ethnic Muslims in its southern islands.
J. Charlie Rose, Long Island University
Right we all, most of us live on Staten Island.
If the green islands exist, they are the paragraph structure of the genome.
Ferryboats leave from the docks behind the Hilton Harbor Castle Hotel at the foot of Yonge Street, calling at the three main islands.
Treasure Island
yeah i use to uh and i and i love the Virgin Islands it's a place i've been and i and and i like the Caribbean although the last time we went to Nassau and and uh
Legal Services Corporation funds local legal services programs to serve clients in every state, county, and congressional district in the United States as well as in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam and Micronesia.
One quickly gets the impression that much of this material comes from the fringes of California, but Breakaway comes from Norway, The Bucknellian from Bucknell University, in Pennsylvania, Chaos Control from Rhode Island, and so forth.
And so my grandfather joined the Brit, and joined the Canadian army, fought in France, was wounded, and eventually made his way back to, I guess, New York and then up to Rhode Island where he met my grandmother.
For each such island, cut o from influence by other islands by the frozen red structure, has its own alternative attractors, two for this island, five for that island, seven for a third island.
For those who look for solitude, there are still quiet islands to be explored, off the beaten track.
I mean a whole, is it an island?
The freedom celebrated by the Bill of Rights resembles an island of solitude, a retreat from society.
•The second largest — as opposed to busiest — town on the island is Santa Eulària del Riu (or Río) on the east coast.
And then, every time I wound up driving into Manhattan, you know, we lived on Staten Island, so I was driving into Manhattan, and every time I would park on the street, I would get a parking ticket.
And who do we fear will invade and intrude upon our island of freedom?
In 1912, Cabildos (Island Councils) were created and given the responsibility for the social, political and economic administration of each island, and co-ordination with the Town Halls.
They made a home out of, out of things they found on the island, fashioned things, oh uh, implements, uh, out of coconut shells and whatever stones and whatever they could find.
Finches hop around the Galapagos, occasionally migrating from island to island.
Finding the most suitable Greek island for your style of vacation is important, as each group of islands, as well as each individual island, is unique.
do we have the death penalty in Rhode Island no okay no we don't
Murine fibroblast NIH 3T3 cells, amphotropic PA317 packaging cells, and Phoenix E ecotropic packaging cells were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)-high glucose (GIBCO-BRL, Grand island, NY, USA) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (GIBCO-BRL, Grand island, NY, USA), 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, and 200 mM L-glutamine.
All from the Staten Island Advance , Aug., 25 1999
For each such island, cut o from influence by other islands by the frozen red structure, has its own alternative attractors, two for this island, five for that island, seven for a third island.
True beach lovers should hop islands to the 9 km (6 miles) of sands of Porto Santo (though sunshine is only really guaranteed there from June to August).
uh i thought Waikiki Beach was as nice of a of a beach as i ever wanna see and we went to four different islands we had a great time
, endemic to La Palma Island, has entomophylous, pink flowers, whereas 
Carolyn McCarthy of New York (who ran after her husband was killed and her son injured by a gun-toting lunatic on the Long Island Railroad).
That is, when parameters discussed below are tuned from the chaotic to the ordered regime such that the green sea is just breaking up into green islands, simultaneously, the Derrida curve changes from the chaotic regime to become tangent with the main diagonal for small values of Dt.
It offers a stepping stone to the sacred island of Delos, with all its archaeological treasures, yet has a variety of beaches for those who want to do little but soak in the sun.
than Puerto Rico as a tropical island and consequently large numbers of barefoot natives or something uh not in a
In the only system so far with a significantly better performance and smaller correlation with CpG islands, promoter recognition is guided by a simultaneous recognition of first exons [ 7].
Only later, with the benefit of Speaker Newt Gingrich's GOP Convention instruction (see above), did I come to realize that what we had here was no less than the fulsome gift from a mature Freedom to the island's youth.
We can use the data to find the genes in the same isolated green islands, for avalanches should be confined to one island and overlap if started at dierent genes in the same island.
Although Crete is an interesting and varied island you may want to take a day or two exploring a different Greek island.
yeah on spring break i'd go with mother to the horse races and all my friends would go to Padre Island
The population of Hawaii resides on seven islands with 80% on the island of Oahu and is estimated at 1.2 million with approximately 580,000 women.
A story describes the West Indian island of Montserrat, where a long-dormant volcano is threatening to erupt.
In particular, the same phase transition occurs as a function of K, P, and C. The striking dierence, however, is that deep in the ordered regime of the piecewise linear case, the genes of the twinkling green islands settle down to steady states that dier on dierent attractors.
The province’s northern island is the site of one of Canada’s best-loved national parks, Cape Breton Highlands, where you’ll drive the spectacular Cabot Trail along the coast and in and out of the forest.
we were we had we were staying at the other end of the island and we drove into San Juan to catch our plane it was at night and this boy really wanted to go on the beach and they look at you crazy you don't go on the beach well it's a big tourist town
This increase in workers' compensation claims in more recent years is consistent with data from Minnesota, but is inconsistent with results from North Dakota, Washington, and Rhode Island.
Or does that violate the island's sovereignty?
In eect, the frozen red component is a “frozen red sea,” which spans the entire network and typically leaves behind isolated twinkling green islands.
It is now the biggest money earner in the islands.
there's a big issue in Rhode Island right now uh there's a company that wants to build a coal fired uh energy plant very close to to downtown Providence
The increased density of CpG islands in R bands was more striking (59%), whereas GC content was only a few percent higher (42.
In the rural Rhode Island towns of Foster and Glocester (Providence County) two other names for the pastime have surfaced.
For each such island, cut o from influence by other islands by the frozen red structure, has its own alternative attractors, two for this island, five for that island, seven for a third island.
Cap de Ses Salines, the island’s southernmost point, takes its name from the local salt flats and ponds, where many bird-watchers gather in the spring to see the migrants on the way north from Africa.
yeah it probably was more enjoyable when you went before it was too too built it's it's a real strip hotel strip now out out on that island
LPS B (Escherichia coli 026:B6) was obtained from Difco Laboratories (Detroit, MI); crystalline lyophilized domoic acid was purchased from Diagnostics Chemicals Ltd. (Oxford, CT) and was dissolved in LPS-free water obtained from GIBCO-BRL (Grand Island, NY) to prepare a 12.
The Italian Renaissance flourished in small islands of such tolerance amid a patchwork quilt of fiefdoms run by local strongmen.
Finches hop around the Galapagos, occasionally migrating from island to island.
A number of companies are already operating on islands around the Aegean.
i couldn't wait to get off we we took a cruise and we went to four different islands and it was a really nice Kauai was nice and Maui was nice we had we had a great time we were there for ten days
Although the region is not bracketed by IS elements or tRNAs that are characteristic of pathogenicity islands (PAIs), it bears features that are similar to the putative PAI identified in the B. anthracis plasmid pXO1 [ 20 ] . Bacterial sequences with similarity to the B. anthracis cap genes are present in sequence databases.
A few reviewers say Heche and co-star Harrison Ford, marooned together on a tropical island, lack chemistry.
But the avalanche stops at the boundaries of the green island since damage avalanches cannot propagate through the frozen red percolating sea.
The splendid new statue of Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria, the patron saint of the Canary Islands, is the object of a major pilgrimage in mid-August.
yeah and uh yeah but let's see you you do have uh long time uh long time power people there in terms of i mean Rhode Island's got uh
CpG_ISLANDS
Foreign troops would most likely come from Australia at first: "It's their Haiti," a U.S. diplomat told the Post . A full-page spread in the NYT "Week in Review" summarizes the Indonesian national dilemma: how to hold 13,000 islands together.
He obliged them in a string of high-profile commissions: magnificent mansions along Fifth Avenue, country houses on Long Island, and palatial “cottages” in Newport, Rhode Island.
One third of the island’s population of just over three million live in San Juan, which is undoubtedly the draw for many.
we were we our business was on the other side of the island we were only in San Juan it was at night
By randomizing across all of New York State, the NYSDOH study assumed cancer risk to be equal across New York State and that, for example, risk on Long Island is the same as risk in the Adirondacks.
Occupying the entire third floor of the museum, it includes both a full-scale replica of Pollock's studio in the Springs, on Long Island, and a continuous showing of the fascinating films that Hans Namuth, a German émigré photographer, made of Pollock painting at the peak of his career.
We can use the data to find the genes in the same isolated green islands, for avalanches should be confined to one island and overlap if started at dierent genes in the same island.
This leaves a whole island to explore on foot, or by 4-wheel-drive vehicle.
uh-huh and um to tell you the truth i I think i'd rather just go to the island
This means cancer risk on was assumed to be equal across Long Island.
Carolyn McCarthy, the Long Island Railroad-massacre widow elected to Congress as a gun-control advocate.
More, patterns of gene activities that change will change in correlated ways for genes in the same green island, but not for genes in dierent green islands.
Halfway down the island is Governor’s Harbour, a photogenic town set on the sheltered eastern coastline.
and New Mexico too for that matter that are bigger than Rhode Island but uh
The RT-PCR were performed in the same sample tube using gene-specific primers obtained from IDT (Coralville, IA), as described below, and the Superscript one-step kit obtained from Gibco-BRL (Grand Island, NY).
In New Jersey and Staten Island, candidates from the two major parties debated the relative merits of alternative free-lunch options.
By contrast, if a twinkling green gene in one of the isolated green islands is perturbed and turned purple, a purple avalanche spreads to some or all of the twinkling green genes in that island.
AquaSur is, at 130,000 square m (over 32 acres), the largest waterpark in the Canary Islands.
uh right i mean you know there's not that much free time and i don't know uh we we we daydream about going camping i guess uh there's a very nice state park around here um that we're on Long Island
President Clinton speech to the Long Island Association, Feb. 15, 2002 (videotape of speech).
I'm so glad you enjoyed your stay on the island.
By contrast, if a twinkling green gene in one of the isolated green islands is perturbed and turned purple, a purple avalanche spreads to some or all of the twinkling green genes in that island.
The Mirador de la Peña, 8 km (5 miles) west of Valverde, is the newest, the most impressive, and arguably the only real tourist attraction on the island.
in Rhode Island
After development of P. carinii infection (approximately six weeks after inoculation), rats were sacrificed, and lungs were removed and homogenized in minimal essential medium (MEM) (Life Technologies, Inc., Grand Island, New York) containing 10% fetal calf serum and 1% non-essential amino acids.
The small pocket of Windward Island semantic, if such it can be called, has nothing to do with the patois of adjacent French islands.
Presumably, these small avalanches occur when green genes near the filigreed “coasts” of red frozen islands are perturbed and the purple avalanche is trapped on the fingers of the red beaches.
Of course, no Chinese lake would be complete without its artificial islands, causeways, and pavilions, several of which serve as teahouses festooned with peach and plum blossoms, orchids or osmanthus, depending on the season.
right well the Virgin Islands are an American territory
In a cross-sectional study design, women receiving annual screening mammograms were recruited at five mammography facilities on the island of Oahu.
"The emperor told us that in 1941 when they sent us to this island.
For each such island, cut o from influence by other islands by the frozen red structure, has its own alternative attractors, two for this island, five for that island, seven for a third island.
On the smaller and more remote islands — called the Out Islands or Family Islands — intimate resorts cater to your every need and make it possible for you to forget about schedules, deadlines, and traffic jams.
lived in New Jersey for a while now he's in Rhode Island and um he used to like to go and we used to go just every weekend just to look at houses for no reason we weren't buying one every weekend but just to look at them
Even the most meager allowance will fund a shopping spree in the narrow streets of the Greek island towns.
apparently there's been a uh movement where i am i'm on Long Island which is a suburb of New New York City
5 km) of Las Vegas Boulevard crammed with huge casino and hotel complexes, as well as some of the newer megaresorts — the MGM Grand, the Excalibur, Treasure Island, and the Venetian, gondolas and all.
it was in Padre Island and in a truck of course not but not in a tent
Once there, you should be able to count off all the other Canary Islands and, on a good day, see North Africa.
maybe they ought to have an island out in the middle of the ocean we can drop them all off
On New Providence and Grand Bahama this may not be much slower than at home, but on the Out Islands, time definitely runs more slowly, and nothing is so important that it can’t wait a while.
that sounds good another place that i heard is really pretty is uh the Cayman Islands
The largest island in the Cyclades, Naxos is a place of contrasts.
but he always maintained his own apartment he lived in the city he lived in uh Rhode Island in fact we live in Rhode Island i work in in the Massachusetts plant but i live in Rhode Island
The brainchild of the Sol Group, Atlantis Paradise Island is a new concept in resorts — it’s a huge hotel with an amazing theme park and entertainment village all on one site.
i grew up on Long Island where the Jets play uh i mean they're in New York City but it's closer to Long Island
Out in the river are several islands and the largest one, Gezira, is home to one of Cairo’s most chic neighborhoods, Zamalek.
it's in Rhode Island actually i live in Rhode Island i work in Massachusetts
On the island of Borneo, the great natural attractions are Sarawak’s caves at Niah and Mulu, river cruises with a visit to tribal longhouses, Sabah’s national parks of Mount Kinabalu and the offshore islands, and the Sepilok wildlife sanctuary.
and uh there's and island right off that called Matagorda and uh you can take a ferry boat out there and it's uh completely uh pretty much anyway complete wilderness island
Syracuse’s original settlement was the port island of Ortigia, joined by causeway to the mainland.
what islands did you go to
You can also have a dip in the semi-natural pools at Porto Moniz on the extreme northwest tip of the island.
yeah yeah i found that i used to commute i used to live in New York City and commute out to Long Island which is in the suburbs and uh it was normally about an hour and fifteen minutes hour and a half drive it'd take
At the western end of the island, the small Museo Río Cuale features archeological artifacts found in the region.
oh well i will eventually what well what is what's the most uh you know the nicest island
He is not held in the same high esteem here as he is in other islands.
just in southern Massachusetts and Rhode Island over the weekend we had five murders
Other loyalists set up cotton plantations on various islands, and slaves soon became the majority of the population.
i forget the name of the island but it's a bird sanctuary
Lanai: This pineapple plantation island has become a tiny hide­away with two splendid resorts and the remains of the historic company town, Lanai City (see page 80).
and it's the western half of an island with the eastern half that's the Dominican Republic
After the Spaniards went on to other islands in the Caribbean, the island became a base for English pirate John Watling; indeed until 1926 it was known as Watling’s Island.
with uh say uh uh Saint Thomas uh Virgin Islands uh places like that
Culebra was known as the Spanish Virgin Island until the American takeover — it lies halfway between Puerto Rico and St. Thomas in the US Virgin Islands.
we stayed in Galveston Island State Park once but if a storm blew in and it was just horrible and the sand was blowing up our camp the little camping area was pretty near the shore
you go from the mainland to a whole bunch of islands around there by ferry
The goal in the north for most travelers is the Roque de los Muchachos, the highest point in the island at 2,423 m (7,950 ft) above sea level.
the uh all the all the communities in Rhode Island eventually are going to go on this like the recycling that we have now it depends on on each individual municipality
On the northern slopes of this rocky outcropping is the site of the ancient capital of the island, also called Thira, which dates from the third century b.c. (when the Aegean was under Ptolemaic rule).
uh there's a lake called Lake Lanier here in Georgia that we went to and we camped out on the island and we kind of
On the eastern end of the island, amid a number of large hotel complexes, is Coki Point, a pleasant beach.
i liked Jaws and The Deep and The Island those were pretty good so i would read that
For many years, the island of Lombok was the domain of the Sasaks, a people who had come from the Asian mainland by way of Java and Bali.
and right in Rhode Island there are some nice colleges too Rhode Island college and
A massive eruption of its volcano around 1500 b.c. carried the whole interior of the island high into the atmosphere, changing the climate of the earth for years afterwards.
yeah well up Massachusetts i i live in Rhode Island
As a source of shipbuilding timber in a key location, the island was a kingpin in the far flung commercial empire, and became the Republic’s first formally constituted overseas colony.
you have to wonder how much tillable land they have uh being an island
Next to Sa Llotja, a cannon and an anchor surround the 17th-century Consolat de Mar, the former maritime law court — now the seat of the Balearic Islands’ autonomous government.
basically paying oh and the sprinkler system that that our yard doesn't have a sprinkler system but the island does and um certain sharing areas have sprinkler systems and
Blue signs denote public beach access and there are no restrictions, so you can walk the island’s full length without concerns about trespass.
and i was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to move from Rhode Island to Texas with with TI with my job
Under the Convention of Chuenpi, Britain was given the island of Hong Kong, and on 26 January 1841, it was proclaimed a British colony.
Island of the Blue Dolphins is another
These perpetually sunny islands are also very beautiful in the best tropical manner: a riot of flowers, tangled green forests, mountain waterfalls, dramatic rocky headlands, beaches of white, tan, or black volcanic sand.
not so much in in the town i live in now but but the closest large city in Rhode Island is Providence and then it's Boston which is about uh
There are numerous small airfields on the outlying islands, and flying between the islands is relatively safe, with short transfers.
oh i can't even think of the island now but she told us just wonderful stories of the island and and the pictures she showed us and all that i can't think of the place now it's a pretty big one oh Venezuela
The island’s major resort is Puerto del Carmen and its long golden beach stretches for about 5 km (3 miles) and comfortably accommodates its visitors.
but i know that they have like uh their crime rate it's not Jamaica i don't think i can't remember which it's uh one of the Caribbean Islands and and they
In front of the neoclassical façade stand several statues including Anne Hutchinson, who left the intolerant colony for Rhode Island, Quaker Mary Dyer who was hung for her unorthodox views, and John F. Kennedy striding in front of the western wing.
uh several years ago my very best friend moved to back to Grand Island Nebraska and we had ridden bicycles
With almost guaranteed sunshine, soft sandy beaches, and lots of amusement options off the beach, the more popular Canary Islands are perfect for children of all ages.
i i don't know about about Texas but i know up around here as soon as uh like Massachusetts well Rhode Island too it doesn't make any difference which state when things get tight they always
In the south of the island is one of the most important ancient sites in the Mediterranean.
there's it's it's interesting there's uh someone here in Rhode Island who is very disgusted with the school system
This island 75 miles (120 km) east of Acklins Island, is perhaps the least visited and least developed of all the inhabited Bahamas islands.
oh oh you're in New York right now oh i'm i'm in Texas i didn't know this was all from all over the whole country oh i see and i'm from originally from Long Island
Still, its hidden coves, remarkable natural harbors, and more than 1,000 Megalithic monuments — inscrutable remnants of the island’s prehistoric origins — are dazzling.
uh the Peter Island Yacht Club is uh extremely exclusive
Crossing from the mainland onto the island — into the area called the Hotel Zone — the lagoon with its rich mangrove forest is on the right.
right uh it just sound fascinating to me i would love to just go down i've always liked islands and water and that sort of thing anyway and um
This island 75 miles (120 km) east of Acklins Island, is perhaps the least visited and least developed of all the inhabited Bahamas islands.
you know uh on all of the islands you know now the gisland of of Oahu naturally has got more people on it than the other islands but
You can take boat trips to the island of Gávdos, the most southern territory in Europe, and to Loutró, a picturesque village with no vehicular access; or head inland on foot for Loutró and the remains of ancient Anópoli for an enjoyable day’s hiking.
yeah we setup we set up all our you know we we canoed out to some island and uh that was a lot of fun set up because we were all we were isolated from everyone else but um
Windsurfing is making a splash in the FWI: you’ll see the colorful sails, boards, and masts all around the islands.
uh-huh well it does that up here well we get a lot of weather that's that's uh controlled by the ocean we're so we're so close to the ocean here in Rhode Island are you familiar with with Attleboro at all or in Massachusetts
Phaistós is probably the most dramatic Minoan site on the entire island.
but you know at at Texoma it's such a big lake and we don't have a boat but we're on the dock and people come in there's a lot of sandy islands out in the middle of Texoma
The island itself also has peculiarities that separate it from other Bahamian Islands.
uh it's mainly farms and uh no heavy industry uh Attleboro itself i live in Rhode Island
Great Inagua and Little Inagua Islands are the most southerly of the Bahamas — Great Inagua lies just 50 miles (80 km) from the coast of Cuba.
you know through Ellis Island you know
Finding the most suitable Greek island for your style of vacation is important, as each group of islands, as well as each individual island, is unique.
and right in Rhode Island there are some nice colleges too Rhode Island college and
The long thin strip of Orange Island (Juzizhou), rich in oranges among other crops, bisects the river and in the early 20th century was home to a small band of Western traders and missionaries.
uh would used to be Brown University now it's uh University of Rhode Island
Facing Harbourfront, the breezy beaches and picnic areas of the Toronto Islands offer another handy escape from the city bustle.
hopefully we'll get to travel a little bit too uh my more exciting spots have been i've been to the Galapagos Islands
Nature lovers can hike (or rent a donkey) up the extinct volcano of Mount Epomeo, 788 m (2,585 ft), starting from Fontana for unforgettable views of the island and the Bay of Naples.
oh and one of them is living in Rhode Island now they're all in the northeast part of the country my family's in Virginia and then we're living in Texas
The small, flat island of Nueva Tabarca lies about an hour by boat from Alicante.
and the other thing is i'm not sure about Texas but like in Rhode Island if someone breaks into your home
To the Carib Indians then living here, it was Karukera, island of beautiful waters.
i don't think that's an island but that's okay
If traveling by bus, get off at the Swizzle Inn, famed across the island for its “Rum Swizzle” drinks (made from a secret recipe); it’s also a great place for lunch.
uh we had visited the island of uh Saint Thomas which is American
A spring filtering through the rocks is the source of the island’s mineral water.
yeah i had a guy from Rhode Island that we talked about fishing so and uh oh i had some i've had people in Massachusetts and Vermont they work at TI up there do you work at TI
yeah i'll tell you in the state of Rhode Island it was so bad
Smaller islands with fabled names such as Elba, Stromboli, and Lipari fill in the necklace of floating gems, many reached only by boat, where the lifestyle is that of the Mediterranean one hundred years ago.
yeah yes it's so close because i'm from Long Island so that's close you know that's more related to New Jersey than it is to like Rochester New York those that kind of thing
Tourism too is a seasonal industry, fitting neatly into the traditional cyclical pattern of island life.
it's just a bad situation and it's not only there but Rhode Island is the same it's just isn't there you know it's in the same boat
At the same time, the hotel offerings across the island are rapidly being expanded, and visitors can now choose from hotels, quintas (villas), estalagens and pousadas (inns) along the coasts and in the villages and mountains of the interior.
the government whether it's state or local most of them i guess you've been reading about the problems we've had in Rhode Island where the governor closed down a lot of the the uh credit unions and banks
Mount Alvernia, in the center of the island, is not far from the airfield at New Bight.
yeah Houston's probably as big as this whole state of Rhode Island
Near the small harbor at this end of Sanur Beach you can find motorized prahu (outrigger boats) to take you to Nusa Lembongan, an island 17 km (11 miles) offshore to the east, which is noted for its good surfing and snorkeling.
what is what is two thirty five housing i'm not familiar with that term here in Rhode Island
The island is renowned worldwide for exquisite handmade lace and embroidery, well-crafted wicker items, gorgeous flowers, and long-lasting Madeiran wines.
yeah i mean they they even moved they did they went to parks like um well we lived on Long Island and
In 1943 Robert resigned and the islands swung immediately to de Gaulle’s Free French.
oh i can't even think of the island now but she told us just wonderful stories of the island and and the pictures she showed us and all that i can't think of the place now it's a pretty big one oh Venezuela
It’s also the youngest fort on the island, built in the 18th century to plug a hole in the easterly defenses of the city.
they only only in like in the common areas and then the island but they don't do it in your yard
All the islands except Fuerteventura and Lanzarote are good for serious walkers.
uh Nassau San Juan Saint Thomas we've been there twice we went two cruises that hit those islands but with different people we we've gone with friends each time
Reached most easily from Kingston, this archipelago of, in fact, 1,700 islands are strung out along the St. Lawrence River for nearly 80 km (48 miles).
and we just went to um two islands
Most exciting of its varied collections is a display of photographs showing island scenes from before the devastating 1956 earthquake.
at the same time there was one unsolved murder on the island of Tortola and the whole island wanted to know when the hanging was going to take place
No cars are allowed, but you can rent a bicycle, downtown or on Centre Island.
yeah i mean Rhode Rhode Island's just like a neighborhood compared to you guys down there it's just so so so small
The Dodecanese islands take their name from the Greek phrase dodeka nisi, meaning twelve islands, although the group incorporates far more than one dozen in its number.
you're right and you know the funny thing is now that i have a large kitchen with a big island and that i still have people trying to come in you know they'll come in the kitchen and i said
The major port of Gavrion on the west coast serves the whole island, but the main town is Chora (which simply means “town,” and is often used on islands with only one main settlement).
Myrtle Beach i enjoy Padre Island right here in Texas but i enjoy pretty much any beaches
Off the coast to the south of St. David’s Island is smaller Nonsuch Island, once a quarantine station for sufferers of yellow fever.
to an island and they snorkeled and that that really got them you know fascinated with the deep and so they actually went through all the course and all the trouble in the middle of Missouri as we were living in Kansas City then
The island is heaven for anyone who enjoys being outside, whether your taste runs to gentle walks or hardcore hiking.
i mean uh on Ellis Island they you know they're redoing that and going to make it a museum a national museum
All of the islands are now officially and proudly part of France, not colonies as they were for some three centuries.
oh about a you know five minute ride from Rhode Island
They are proud of the scenic beauty, delectable wines, and exquisite hand embroidery that their tiny island has become rightly famous for.
my i had the same situation here my kids were we bought them up and put them in the public schools here in Rhode Island and
live on an island off off shore from Seattle
where the island of Hawaii you really can't lay on the beach over there you know
What remains today is the outer rim of the original circular island.
small island
Plantation work was labor intensive, but there were very few laborers on the island; the Spanish slaves had disappeared into the inhospitable interior and the native Arawak had been decimated by disease.
i mean there's uh lots of tiny islands in the South Pacific that are territories like that they could make states like Guam
These Indians, also from South America, swept north in fast seagoing canoes, attacking and either eating or driving Arawak men off island after island, then appropriating their women.
uh that's true unless you unless you come from i come i come from a fairly small town so i i live in Rhode Island but i work in Massachusetts um
Betancuria, by far the most attractive and visited inland town on the island, is an oasis of greenery on this barren island.
Russia has Cuba which is an island outside the United States and United States has Japan that's right out side of Cuba it it does Vietnam have a any strategic location
Most exciting of its varied collections is a display of photographs showing island scenes from before the devastating 1956 earthquake — the last major one to strike the island.
i just thought of a project i did my wife wanted an island in the kitchen
Menorca gets big-time package holidaymakers, especially from Great Britain, and beaches and roads get awfully crowded in the height of the summer season, but the island seldom feels frenetic.
uh my wife and i both graduated from the University of Rhode Island their uh master gardener program
The Islands
oh really he uh well actually right now he lives in Rhode Island he
Ocean View, formerly Queen’s Park, is right in the center of the Main Island and overlooks the north coast.
oh i i'd well actually i did visit Hawaii once but i never made it off of Oahu which i've heard is not the nicest of the islands
No insult appears to have been intended, even though the message referred to England as “the lonely remoteness of your island, cut off from the world by intervening wastes of sea.”
that's right or or unless they're kicking the British's butts like they did in the Falkland Islands something like that where it involves one of our allies
Underwater sports off the major islands and rocky islets of the FWI are the highlights of countless vacations.
so he came i i actually i live in Rhode Island
From the caves it’s a short drive to Lares, the island’s center of coffee production.
so i live right up in the uh in the northeast corner of Rhode Island and and the plant is is in uh is in the like the south uh southwest section of Massachusetts it comes down like kind of a neck so
It was from here that the mighty Mycenaean empire grew to encompass mainland Greece and the northern Aegean islands.
Island Park in Idaho different places like that i have been to uh my husband and i have been different places like to Disney World and
Any show by Cirque du Soleil (at Treasure Island or Bellagio) is worth seeing — this international troupe of performers reaches mystical heights.
that's pretty much about the same time and i i built on two acres of land in a town called Cumberland Rhode Island
Nicolás Guillén, the nation’s finest poet, described the island as a “long green alligator.”
yeah all the states around us Connecticut uh Massachusetts New Hampshire i think Vermont and Maine do it Rhode Island's the only state that doesn't put a nickel deposit on the bottles
Farther south are the resorts of Tioman Island and Desaru.
i grew up on Long Island where the Jets play uh i mean they're in New York City but it's closer to Long Island
It has windswept beaches with views of the daunting cliffs of the Famara Massif that lead up to the Mirador del Río and Graciosa island.
now i work in Massachusetts but i live in Rhode Island so the the legislature just come out and said that because of what with
Nightlife varies from island to island, and on some of the smaller islands, an evening will revolve around dinner and conversation at the local taverna, or a stroll along the seafront.
my family moved to Connecticut the rest of the family stayed in New York and uh on Long Island and so they're all kind of local and close and so they just have a you know a day picnic
Sheltered slopes a few miles inland are covered in groves of lemon, orange, almond, and olive trees, with the island’s highest mountain, Puig Major (1,445 m.
but he always maintained his own apartment he lived in the city he lived in uh Rhode Island in fact we live in Rhode Island i work in in the Massachusetts plant but i live in Rhode Island
Many islands will also have one venue for Greek night, an evening of culinary and cultural delights.
how much do you make up in Rhode Island so i was just going wait a minute we're supposed to be talking about fishing now stop but yep anyway is that funny but we did talk about fishing though so but i guess i'll let you go i'm going to finish my dishes and
This guide divides Crete into four sections: the capital, Iráklion, is first; followed by the central section; then moving east; before finally exploring the western parts of the island.
i remember i i was in New York several years ago and i took the wrong turn and i went over into uh State Island where the uh uh landfill is for New York City
Unlike the national parks at the peaks of many of the Canary Islands there are no views from here, aside from at Garajonay itself, and an almost perpetual thick mist clings to the ancient, moss-covered trees.
It was also noted that not all programs were "state"wides and that perhaps there would be value in getting the island programs together (Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia and Guam) since they face similar delivery issues.
1965: One of my favorite episodes of Gilligan's Island is the one where the castaways get superpowers after consuming irradiated vegetables.
The site has been fortified since prehistoric times and offers beautiful views of Aitana, San Juan, Santa Pola, and Benidorm and Tabarca islands in the distance.
The CpG island density is also in agreement with a report of FISH karyotypes using CpG island probes [ 46] with contrasting fluorescent signal in late-replicating regions.
Block Island, awash in Rhode Island Sound, shares with Maine the term for double-ended vessels large or small.
Though their economic well-being is about the most precarious of any part of France, these basically agricultural islands can and do provide the scenery, the sun, the sea, and the sand in sufficient quantity to attract rapidly growing numbers of vacationers looking for fun, relaxation, and.
All cultures were grown in serum-free Neurobasal medium (2 ml per dish) supplemented with B27 (Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY; 50:1 v/v), 0.5 mM L-glutamine (Sigma) and 100 units/ml penicillin-streptomycin (Gibco; Cat.
Anglo-Japanese (or, informally, Japlish) is an intriguing case because of the economic prominence of Japan, the relative one-sidedness at present of the flow of words, and the restrictedness of Japanese, a language little used outside the home islands.
It is on Ireland Island South where you will find the Royal Naval Cemetery set beside the main road.
In fact, the eastern-most boundary in colorectal OPR occurs in the vicinity of Greenlawn (ZIP 11740), while boundaries in both male and female colorectal cancer SMR are found as far east as Wainscott and Fishers Island.
Army records show that when the remains of Japanese soldiers killed in the Mariana Islands were repatriated in 1984, some 60 percent of the corpses were headless.
While sugar, rum, and banana exports resumed to a degree after the war, the islands’ economies have not kept satisfactory pace with their burgeoning populations.
To prevent any overconsolidation as a result of lack of transitional exons (in partial or complete ORFs) for adjacent genes, CpG islands, large gaps (> 50 kb) between exons and Genscan prediction were used as gene boundaries when higher-ranking boundary information was unavailable.
The other story is the love affair between a luckless torch singer (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and a luckless ex-fisherman (David Strathairn), in which the two--through a series of melodramatic contrivances that testify to Sayles' lack of ingenuity as a storyteller--end up together with the singer's brilliant, desperately unhappy daughter (Vanessa Martinez) on a remote island, where they're prey to cold, starvation, and drug smugglers with shotguns.
The final stage of Indian advancement began while Europe was in the Middle Ages: the Taíno Indians, a peaceful people native to Venezuela, traveled up through the chain of the Lesser Antilles and settled the island they called Borinquén.
Culture medium was prepared with low-glucose Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium with 10mmol/l HEPES (GIBCO BRL, Grand Island, NY, USA), 0.1mmol/l nonessential amino acids (Sigma Chemical, St. Louis, MO, USA), 0.4 mmol/l L-proline (Sigma Chemical), and 1mmol/l gadolinium-DTPA (Magnevist, Berlex Imaging, Wayne, NJ, USA).
This is the country that once went by the name of Zuid Afrika --an important and well-known region of which is Zululand (also known by its ethnic name of Kwa Zulu ). Contiguous countries with South Africa are Swaziland and Mozambique . Further up the East coast is Tanzania , one of the constituent parts of which is the formerly independent island state of Zanzibar .
The establishments listed below offer a cross-section of local restaurants, and should convince you that not everything on the island comes with chips (french fries).
Boundary overlap (Figure 13) revealed that there is some overlap in male and female lung cancer boundaries, especially in the central portion of Long Island, but this amount of overlap was not statistically significant under boundary overlap analysis when Long Island is considered as a whole (Table 6).
The film--a long series of crotch shots on Coney Island, followed by a long segment of drunks at a cocktail party--gives the game away a little.
The interior has been transformed into a museum of life in the US Virgin Islands: colonial furniture, archive documents, and old photographs of the islands, people, and towns.
Our randomization approach "resampled" the data under the null hypothesis that a cancer incidence observed in a Long Island ZIP code is equally likely to occur in any other Long Island ZIP code.
There is a gruesome Stephen King story, called "Survivor Type," in which a heroin-addicted surgeon marooned on a desert island successively amputates each of his limbs in order to survive.
Once on the island, however, you can use the public bus service, which runs the length of the island, linking the hotels with the quayside and the small shopping center.
Considering the varying definitions of CpG islands (especially the minimum length of CpG-rich region), this number is in close agreement with the estimate of 45,000 obtained by Antequera and Bird [ 28] using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes.
Mass commitment to urbanism has never existed in the United States--even in New York, which seems more urban than it really is because it annexed most of its suburbs (that is, the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island) long ago.
Here is a list of some of the better courses, working clockwise around the island from San Juan:
The exon index is an integrated table generated by a Sybase relational database, consisting of chromosome number, fingerprinted contig (FPC) ID, FPC contig order, BAC contig ID, BAC contig order, BAC contig orientation, starting position of exon on BAC contig, end position of exon on BAC contig, exon orientation, transcript orientation (available from GenBank, IMAGE, UniGene, HINT and dbEST), evidence (transcript, protein, gene prediction, ORF, Pfam), database name (Table 1), feature (poly(A) signal, CpG island, Genscan boundary), starting position on exon (or feature), end position on exon (or feature), score (BlastN, BlastX).
John F. Kennedy Jr . married longtime girlfriend Carolyn Bessette, on a secluded island off Georgia.
When the Americans entered the conflict, White’s Island, just opposite the Hamilton waterfront, was leased to the US government.
the Virgin Islands, Guam, and Micronesia.
has a primitive, Easter Island look: Léger paints a holly leaf in exactly the same black-on-red idiom, as though the nude woman is a botanical exhibit.
He, too, had set out from Tahiti when he came upon the Hawaiian Islands.
This is often referredto as an "island model" [ 27 ] . This exchangeincreases diversity among the solutions in the different populations.Following the set number of generations, the best-so-far solutionsfrom each of the n processors are compared and a singlebest solution is selected.
-- Stefania Caruso on the homeless cats of San Clemente, a small island near Venice, Italy.
The big prize was gold, particularly in South America, so for a while Madrid regarded the Caribbean chain as “islands of Peru” where the galleons could stop for fresh water.
LINE1 elements again differed from other features, showing a negative correlation with exons, CpG islands, GC content and Alu repeats.
Students at the Rhode Island School of Design have unveiled the "kitchen of the future."
To the south, in the Sea of Marmara, lie the woods and beaches of the Princes’ Islands.
During these calls, staff at Rhode Island Quality Partners (the QIO for Rhode Island and the lead QIO for the pilot) collected lessons learned and comments from QIOs, national trade organizations, and CMS.
Putting Disneyland on Lantau Island can only distract us from the airport itself, which seems to me to be the perfect iteration of a modern-day theme park, with its brilliantly modern design that effortlessly propels travelers to their gates, their luggage, a brand-new rail link to downtown Hong Kong.
The “Tongue of the Ocean,” especially where it narrows between Andros and New Providence, and Exuma Sound around Cat Island are well loved by the knowledgeable.
The resulting corrected ideograms and six major genomic features are plotted across the genome in Figure 1. Unique exons (as determined above), CpG islands, genomic GC content, Alu and LINE1 elements, and minisatellites are plotted as densities (proportion of bases belonging to feature) in 1 Mb intervals.
Stern grew up on Long Island, went to Boston University, and worked at stations in Westchester, N.Y.; Hartford, Conn.; Detroit; and Washington, D.C., before making it in New York City.
The old Roman name of Europe’s most famous volcano means “Unextinguished” — it is the only active volcano in continental Europe (with those on the nearby islands of Sicily and Stromboli not to be forgotten).
While the NYSDOH provides information on the entire state, we focus on the 214 ZIP codes within Nassau, Queens and Suffolk County on Long Island.
[From the fifth in a series of articles on Maine islands, Island Odyssey, by Edie Lau, staff writer for the Portland Press Herald and Maine Sunday Telegram, 18 August 1996.]
Santorini looked exactly like many of the other islands in the Cyclades until around 1500 b.c. , when a massive eruption of its volcano carried the whole interior of the island high into the atmosphere, changing the climate of the earth for years afterwards.
Comparing Figure 9to Figure 3in [ 1 ] , we located several areas of high OPR for breast cancer near the cluster of low breast cancer incidence identified in the local Moran analysis [ 1 ] . We also note the cluster of high breast cancer SMR found on southeastern Long Island is in an area of low OPR [ 1 ] . Based on map inspection, overall there appears to be a negative relationship between OPR and breast cancer incidence so that clusters of high breast cancer incidence occur where OPR is low, and clusters of low incidence occur where OPR is high.
According to the Times of London, around the first of the year, something will happen on Long Island that scientists believe has a small but genuine chance of causing "perturbations of the universe," which could destroy the world.
The islands are busy, but all facilities such as hotels and restaurants are open, and extra ferries and small boats (caiques) mean more opportunity to travel between islands.
First, a very frequent application is the examination of a situation of unique interest, such as Three Mile Island, the Challenger disaster, or allegations concerning funding for a specific presidential campaign.
Today, the Journal 's Asra Q. Nomani is an island of lust in a sea of lucre, filing a long, long, look at the slow, slow-sex industry known as Tantra.
It failed, the natives said, because of that island’s evil elves called chickcharnies, who cast a spell on the family for disturbing the land.
Our purpose in undertaking this analysis is to illustrate how geographic pattern analysis can increase our understanding of breast, lung and colorectal cancers in Long Island, New York.
(I trust that you don't actually partake of food or beverage on the subway, since in Rudy Giuliani's New York that's a "quality of life" offense that makes you eligible for an all-expenses-paid night in the lockup on Rikers Island.)
Theft and prostitution (chiefly blamed on incomers from the other islands) looked as if they were becoming endemic.
The population of Hawaii resides on seven islands with 80% on the island of Oahu and is estimated at 1.2 million with approximately 580,000 women.
Television has recently begun to inundate these incompetent but lovable little islands, embarrassing colonial deposits now handed over to sink or swim in independence.
It was at Fon­taine­bleau that he abdicated in 1814 to go into his first exile on the island of Elba.
Because of its long and forked appearance, the geography of Long Island is poorly represented by centroids and circles.
(Britain's war with Argentina over a few barren islands, which Thatcher prosecuted with the zeal of a Churchill, has been compared to two bald men fighting over a comb.)
In 1543 Portuguese explorers reached Tanegashima Island, off southern Kyushu, followed over the next decade by Portuguese traders and Jesuit missionaries, headed by St Francis Xavier, who landed at Kagoshima in 1549.
Women living on Oahu were 67% more likely to have BCS than women on the outer islands.
It might be of some interest to readers that even in such a small state all but one of the words and expressions he cited are unknown to me (as well as to most urban Rhode Islanders) even though I was born and raised in Rhode Island.
International travel agents were given a tour of the country, including a visit to Bali that coincided with an important Balinese ceremony in March 1963 at the so-called “mother temple” Besakih, on the slopes of the island’s highest mountain, Gunung Agung.
Rhizobia have the ability to transfer genes horizontally to other bacteria, and M. loti carries a 'symbiosis island' which spans approximately 9% of its genome and has been shown to have a role in rhizobial evolution via HGT [ 46 ] . This symbiosis island contains certain genes involved in nodulation and nitrogen-fixation functions, but none of these is a homolog of the nematode HGT candidates we have identified.
A former drug informant and a dropout from the U.S. witness protection program, Miller has found a safe haven on St. Kitts, where his bullying and his cash have won him enormous political influence with the island's shaky government.
In 1516, some 900 Jews (rising to a peak of nearly 5,000 by the mid-17th century) were confined to what was then a remote and isolated island.
This paper demonstrates that there is significant spatial pattern of cancer in Nassau, Queens, and Suffolk counties on Long Island, New York.
The Island of the Colorblind is a quite different kind of book, even if it could be superficially described as consisting of two case studies.
It was also noted that not all programs were "state"wides and that perhaps there would be value in getting the island programs together (Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia and Guam) since they face similar delivery issues.
The last time there was a hurricane we were in the house on Long Island, and the police came and actually said the words "Seek higher ground."
Windermere Island, just off the east coast, was once the place to be in the Bahamas, but its smart resort hotel is now closed.
Any feature that can be anchored to the sequence - for example, an exon, a promoter, a transposable element, a regulatory region, or a CpG island - is an annotation.
The most famous clothing drama in the Odyssey begins with Odysseus washed up on a beach, naked and half-dead, on the island of Aeaea.
The harbor is dotted with the pine-covered islands of Tsukumo, offering delightful bathing along white-sand beaches.
Boundaries in breast cancer morbidity occur throughout Long Island, and identify adjacent ZIP codes that differ substantially in cancer morbidity [ 1 ] . Hence the local Moran and boundary approaches identify clusters on a finer spatial scale, while the scan approach is identifying larger clusters.
Baker goes on to complain about the island's new popularity and the ostentatious displays of wealth.
The island itself also has peculiarities that separate it from other Bahamian Islands.
In fact, the organization of genes into operons, complex regulons [ 11 ] , or pathogenicity islands [ 12 ] suggests that related functions usually share physical proximity.
Culeman-Beckman says that 11 years ago he attended Hampton Day School Camp in Bridgehampton, Long Island with Carl Bernstein's sons, Jacob and Max, and that Jacob was the one who told him.
The wind whistles with great force in Fuerteventura and may even have given the island its name, a corruption and inversion of el viento fuerte (the strong wind).
Only the Island of Hawaii and Maui have a radiation facility, but they are hard to reach from many parts of the islands.
The McCain campaign has actually had an active office in New York for only a few weeks, and it is in the relatively isolated location of Staten Island, the smallest of New York City's five boroughs.
Efforts to shelter the Allies and smuggle them off the island in small groups from isolated south coast beaches were remarkably successful.
The majority of boundaries in OPR are found in Western Long Island, in urban areas, suggesting that a greater number of point source emissions are causing greater spatial variation in OPR in more urban areas.
In the rest of The Bounty , Walcott relinquishes such allusive density for the simple, history-erasing realities of life in the Antilles islands: the mango trees that "serenely rust when they are in flower," the firefly that "keeps striking matches."
Cuba remained a colony of Spain, but the war contributed to the abolition of slavery on the island in 1886 and planted the seeds of a national consciousness.
For the local Moran analysis, we are asking questions specific to Long Island, against a null hypothesis that states that cancer risk is uniform across Long Island.
A. Charlie Rose, Long Island University
The glittering Emerald Coast on the northeast tip of the island is one of Italy’s smartest resort areas, with beautiful beaches, five-star hotels, sports complexes, and exclusive marinas for yachts and motor launches.
If, however, we scoped the job to examine in depth recent problems in appropriately selected nuclear plants including among others Three Mile Island, seeking to understand why the safeguards either were not complied with or were not sufficient, then we would have selected the case study method to answer the question.
6. "We already qualified Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and Staten Island in the first day," says O'Brien hopefully.
After the spectacular panorama viewed from Gibb’s Hill Lighthouse (on one of Bermuda’s highest points), the land narrows to a string of small islands held together by a series of small bridges leading eventually to the sites of Britain’s former glory.
Fourteen states (California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, and Washington) maintained Medicaid eligibility for qualified immigrants entering the United States after August 22, 1996, through state-only funds [ 31 ] . We included a dichotomous variable in the model describing each state's implementation decision.
The prefect, Bernard Bonnet, who was sent to Napoleon's island by the socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin to impose law and order on unruly Corsican nationalists, is alleged to have ordered his police force to burn down a beach restaurant as an example to them.
A favorite with skiers, the mountain also offers a fine view northwest over Capilano Lake and across to Vancouver Island.
We believe this result is consistent with an overall pattern of boundary fragmentation in western Long Island, and cohesive boundaries around the large-scale clusters occurring on mid- to eastern Long Island.
Congress governed the Caribbean island directly as a territory until 1952, when it expanded Puerto Rican autonomy by making it a "commonwealth," allowing it to adopt a constitution and create a locally elected government with statelike powers.
The islands did not become part of Greece until 1947.
Randomization to the hypertension component began in February, 1994, and continued through January, 1998, with 42,418 participants recruited at 623 clinical centers in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
He has been cutting down on his father's more lavish expenses--such as his famous "Capitalist Tool" jet--and is even selling pop's island in Fiji.
This silver-gray structure swings across to Oakland via two suspension spans, a cantilever span, and a tunnel through Treasure Island.
These clinics together provide more than one-half of all mammograms on the island (Cancer Research Center of Hawaii, unpublished data).
Perhaps the original was most of the populous island's inhabitants and was deformed through some editorial glitch—but even Homer, it is said, sometimes nodded.
On many of the Out Islands fun centers around having dinner and a couple of drinks in the local bar, finishing a few pages of the book you brought, watching the stars, or planning the next day’s diving or sailing.
“Adélie penguins have experienced a nearly 70% decrease in their populations at our study sites on Anvers Island [Palmer Station] in the western Antarctic Peninsula over the last 30 years,” says Fraser, “and there's evidence that other krill-dependent predators are beginning to decrease.”
A story says clues to the 1918 Spanish flu epidemic may lie in the cells of seven corpses preserved by permafrost on a Norwegian island.
Beausoleil Island, off Honey Harbor just outside Midland, is the focus or launching pad of the islands park, very well equipped for camping (there are no restaurant facilities on any of the islands, so be sure to take your own supplies).
This makes computational recognition of invertebrate promoters, and those vertebrate promoters not found in CpG islands, more difficult.
Democrat Eric Vitaliano, who has been a state-assembly member for many years, took credit for reducing the cost for Staten Island residents, who get discounts of up to 70 percent on the $7 round-trip toll (and who can ride to Manhattan at no charge on the Staten Island Ferry).
As a result, on 16 August 1982 the Canary Islands were given autonomous status, with nearly all governmental functions transferred from Madrid and the status of capital being shared between Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.
Some krill fisheries operate near the island of South Georgia, east of the Falkland Islands.
The cases in question both occur in Micronesia: a concentration of congenital achromatopsia on Pingelap, one of the Caroline Islands; and the occurrence among a stratum of the population of Guam of a disease called lytico-bodig, which can take forms resembling Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ("Lou Gehrig's disease"), or Alzheimer's disease--or two or all three in combination.
From the Cité du Havre north of Victoria Bridge, the controversial apartment complex of Habitat, designed by the Israeli-born architect Moshe Safdie for Expo ’67, provides residents with a grandstand view of the river and its islands.
Whereas on Oahu treatment facilities can be reached within one hour, distances on the outer islands are much farther.
4. Banker John Mathewson who gives Cayman Islands money-laundering a bad name.
Unlikely as it seems now, at one time these sugar islands were close to center stage as the great powers of Europe warred fiercely for world commercial domination.
Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM), fetal bovine serum (FBS) and Lipofectamine Plus reagents were from Gibco BRL Life Technologies (Grand Island, NY).
(The reference is to a long-running BBC radio interview program, Desert Island Discs.)
The impression of Sir George Somers on Ordnance Island in St. George’s is his most noted work, but he also accepts commissions to produce beautiful life-sized models and smaller pieces.
This implies that when Long Island is considered as a whole, spatial processes that lead to boundary generation or to boundary fragmentation are either absent or countervailing.
Using a helicopter equipped with a heat-seeking device, Suffolk County cops located two cinderblock warehouses in Holbrook, Long Island, and arrested two men for theft of electricity.
There is a comprehensive range of quality luxury goods on sale in the major towns on the island.
The term "Zone 2 State" means Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Colorado,the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas west of Interstate 35, Utah, the Virgin Islands, Washington, and Wyoming.
Thus a Windward Island might say, They take we jobs from we.
The role of the islands as a bridge between the Old World and the New World has continued through the centuries.
Short spikes of CpG islands (for example, in 3p26 and 3p25 of Figure 1) do not obviously appear in the assay, perhaps because they are below the resolution of FISH or are part of transcriptionally active regions.
The mountainous island of Timor, which is twice the size of New Jersey, lies in the eastern third of the 4,000-mile-long Indonesian archipelago, about 300 miles from northern Australia.
Underneath the bridges in the harbor is a small island called Potter’s Cay.
The possibility of breast cancer clusters on Long Island has been in the news and the focus of recent research [ 2 ] . New York state had the 4 thhighest death rate from breast cancer in 1995-99, though it was 17 thin colorectal cancer and 39 thin lung cancer [ 3 ] . While breast cancer rates are higher in the Northeastern US than in other parts of the country, Kulldorff et al.
Members of the Kenyon family are so numerous in Rhode Island that one of them commented, If you lift up a stone in Hope Valley, Kenyons will go scuttering off in all directions.
Many of the Balearic Islands are strewn with rocks and boulders, and these early peoples built simple stone houses and cleared fields by piling the stones into dividing walls.
one of the 48 contiguous States, Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, theCommonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; or
I've been thinking how amazing it is, after nearly a century of Republican rule here on Long Island, that the voters finally got fed up enough to buck the system.
Srivijaya, most powerful of the Indianized colonies and a center of Buddhist learning, built a maritime empire from its base on the island of Sumatra.
This set of two studies were prompted by ongoing concern over cancer patterns on Long Island.
The Globe relays a "startling report transmitted on the world-wide internet" that Diana has been cloned by a "mad scientist" and that the baby will be born by the end of the year at a secret laboratory on an island off the coast of China.
In summer the smaller island is scorched and yellow, with rusty-colored rock and cliff formations.
Also represented were our grantees in Puerto Rico, Guam and Virgin Islands programs.
It crushes the heart of someone who knows Japan a little and loves it a lot to see technicians and workers from the Tokaimura plant come out of the building infected by the out-of-control chain reaction, bowing and apologizing for their betrayal of their company, like the soldiers abandoned on Pacific islands for 30 years who asked the emperor's pardon for having lost the war."
Funchal, the island’s capital, major harbor, and only city of any note, merely hints at Madeira’s riches.
The promoters of vertebrate and invertebrate organisms differ in that invertebrate genomes do not contain CpG islands, a feature of more than half of vertebrate genes [ 39].
From The Boys From Brazil (Auschwitz doctor Josef Mengele, alive and well and cloning Hitlers at a secret lab in the Brazilian Amazon) to Jurassic Park (Richard Attenborough alive and well and cloning velociraptors), Wells' basic formula has become familiar: an island; a Frankensteinian experiment; a Faustian scientist; something gone terribly, terribly wrong.
An ancient alleged example of U.S. contempt for human rights was the dispersal in 1961 of three identical Long Island, New York, triplets to see how they would grow up separately.
We are having a hurricane watch in our house, and all activity has halted while we try to figure out whether the weather people know what they're talking about and whether it is safe to use Fed Ex (which flies through Memphis) and whether the contractor for our Long Island house ever fixed the front door that doesn't close.
"Manet in Martinique" evokes ghosts of French culture inhabiting the island.
Anthony Hopkins plays the zillionaire communications baron whom Death enlists in the hope of understanding the human condition--an odd choice for a tour guide, since most people's condition doesn't involve personal helicopters, sprawling mansions on Long Island Sound, or Manhattan apartments that sport Olympic-size swimming pools.
The island still receives $10 billion in assistance (including entitlements) each year.
The French canarie designated the principal isle of the groups of islands.
Her fictional heroines can name every indignity they've been subjected to since birth, and because they are usually bright young women from troubled families in poor island backwaters such as Antigua or Dominica, their list of injuries is long.
The NYT off-leads with Clinton's order to stop the use of live-fire ammunition in military-training exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques, dubbed the "crown jewel of live-fire, combined-arms training," by the U.S. chief of naval operations in the WP , which stuffs the story.
There are plenty of pleasingly creepy moments in ABC's $35 million blockbuster , The Storm of The Century , the first Stephen King horror movie written directly for TV ( Sunday , Monday, Thursday, 9 p.m.) The small, isolated town of Little Tall Island finds itself under siege from both a brutal winter storm and a sinister visitor, a placid-faced killer with supernatural powers, Andre Linoge.
But instead of donating the island to the Nature Conservancy, Allen has evicted the camp and plans to build something for himself.
Similarly, unless you heard them spoken you might not recognize ajskrym, erebeta , and kontaklinser as, respectively, Polish for ice cream , Japanese for elevator , and Swedish for contact lenses . The champion of this dissembling process must surely be the Italian sciacchenze , which is simply a literal rendering of the English shake hands , although the Swahili word for a traffic island, kiplefti ( keep left ) runs it a close second.
"What Ulysses did for Ireland it also did for literature in English, and Texaco , also a masterpiece, does the same for another island, Martinique, and for (here one swallows) literature in French."
The paper said Rupert Murdoch's 20 th Century Fox could face another controversy over its application to film The Beach , starring Leonardo DiCaprio, on Phi Phi Island.
Researchers for the New Zealand Antarctic Program had found that male Adelie penguins on Ross Island, 800 miles from the South Pole, "pay for sexual favours with rocks and stones, a limited resource that can prove crucial for the survival of broods."
Top honors go to the Riven --an upgrade to the best-selling computer game of all time, Myst --about a person marooned on an island.
With computers making the matches, ECNs--such as Instinet, MarketXT and Datek Island -- can extend their hours.
A Jordanian soldier shot and killed seven Israeli schoolgirls who were on a field trip to the "Island of Peace," a border strip shared by the two countries.
Davis, ironically, has accepted a history appointment 3,000 miles away--at Long Island's State University of New York at Stony Brook.
The Antarctic Sentinal reports from the Falkland Islands that NASA will soon be using Antarctic outposts to train potential Mars travelers, because the region offers isolated, freezing, rocky conditions, replicating a possible Mars mission, on which astronauts could be sequestered with a small group for long periods in a harsh environment.
At home, in their brief stops,they glide effortlessly up the ladder of good schools,ladder of yard space, of techno-buttonsin the family room, vehicles lined on the drive,the whole ensemble an island drifting further and further from the rotted core.
There is much coverage today of Bill and Hillary's emotional visit to Goree Island, a slavery marshaling point off the coast of Senegal.
). There are features on "desert island" cartoons, holiday cartoons, and racist (now regretted) cover cartoons.
An Argentine flew his twin-engine aircraft toward the islands in a "surprise" mission of peace.
It was also generally accepted in both Europe and the Middle East that U.S. intelligence was deeply involved in Ocalan's mysterious delivery from the Greek Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, where he had been sheltering, to an island prison near Istanbul.
Not much has changed over the last 40 years on the small island off the coast of Maine where I have vacationed most summers of my life.
The island abandoned its "one China" policy, which implied China's sovereignty over and eventual reunification with Taiwan.
The NYT and WP report that Chinese Embassy officials and visiting military advisers and scholars have hinted that the Chinese government is considering a blockade of some small Taiwan-controlled islands, a small air battle, or perhaps an incursion into Taiwanese waters to punish the nation for its recent talk of independence.
The WP reports on its front page that a high-priority, classified alert issued by the CIA last August saying that Russia had probably conducted a nuclear test on an island near the Artic Circle--an alert that resulted in the formal bawling out of the Russian ambassador to the U.S.--was, in all likelihood, a mistake.
American companies investing in Puerto Rico have long been exempted from income tax, making the island a manufacturing and pharmaceutical center.
After a bit of visual throat-clearing, Eyes of the Nation begins in earnest with a drawing of the Indian village of Secota on Roanoke Island in what would become North Carolina.
"Rhode Island?"
Movie -- Love and Death on Long Island ;
The Aleuts, on the Aleutian Islands of Alaska, are the most divergent.
In any case, the diseases in question and the flora in the margins are intrinsically connected, the tissue being the nature of the islands themselves.
Many of my older acquaintances have little tolerance for any of them, while I would never be able to make a "desert island" choice between them--really.
He stays heroically credible even as the film grows insanely incredible, as when he has to pretend to outrun the rampaging 30-story Godzilla for half the length of Manhattan island in a tiny yellow cab.
Robert Weygand, a Rhode Island Democrat, will decide to stand for reelection to the House rather than run against Lincoln Chafee for the Senate, since the younger Chafee will be much tougher to beat as an incumbent, even an appointed one; c) with Weygand staying put, the Democrats will have to worry about only four open House seats in November 2000, while the Republican open seat total (counting resignations expected in the next month) will soon go up to about 20; d) but Chafee's Rhode Island Senate seat, which Democrats thought they might capture, is now in the probable-Republican column.
About 15 years ago, painter Chuck Close went out to Springs, Long Island, to meet Willem de Kooning, one of the greatest American artists of this century.
A century later the Netherlands established a competing claim on the island, and for the next 200 years the two colonial powers produced crops for burgeoning trade in the East Indies.
Book -- Island of the Colorblind , by Oliver Sacks;
Inside, the WP reports that Al Gore paid a visit to children at a school in Rhode Island who had expected to meet George W. Bush the day before.
It is in fact a mountainous island in the South Pacific, part of the very populous and highly authoritarian archipelago nation of Indonesia.
In the 1940s a certain man-of-the-people councillor in an Eastern Caribbean island (now independent; it shall remain nameless) could not bear the thought of any kind of expenditure by the local council, apart from that on roads and water-supply, the two services that he had faithfully promised his constituents.
And while the more aggressive types of beach maintenance activity have fallen into disfavor among coastal geologists in recent years, those beaches, like the East Coast's, have been the recipients of billions in taxpayers' dollars spent collectively by local, state, and federal bureaucracies, from the Squirrel Island Village Corp. to the Army Corps of Engineers.
Desert island risks ... a sneer at pulpy romance and record programmes but with some admiration for last century's explorers in tropical waters.
He also describes in detail his moments on the island's Milk Meadows golf course.
A photo essay documents competitors in an "adventure competition" in which teams had to hike, kayak, Rollerblade, and swim across 360 miles of Philippine jungles, mountains, lakes, and islands.
