They settled in the Alentejo, along the Tagus river, and in the Algarve (which they named al-Gharb, or “Western Land”).
Yuck Yuck: We should back the Republican proposal to rename Washington National Airport in honor of Ronald Reagan, said Bill "Shecky" Kristol on This Week , just to "annoy" Democrats like Stephanopoulos every time they land in D.C.
Movie -- Cop Land ;
The Civil Rights Act of 1875, Section 1, provided that all persons should enjoy equal access to “inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters, and other places of public amusement” regardless of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.
The electric chair came to the state in the middle of the first great Florida land boom, when Florida was conjuring itself up out of the sea of grass.
The Jordan Times Monday praised the American-born Queen Noor for Jordan's progress in getting rid of anti-personnel land mines in the country.
It seems the land controversy started this month around the 100th anniversary of an agreement reached between British colonialists and some Masai elders.
Stewardship land shall be quantified in terms of physical units (for example, acres) rather than in monetary terms.
On the following page is a summary of the stewardship land by category of major use, broken down within each category by principal holding agency, at September 30, 199Z.
After about 650 b.c., Greek traders entered the competition to exploit Spain’s rich mineral deposits and fertile land.
In winter, the sea temperature makes it a little too cold for diving, but many visitors still enjoy swimming in waters warmer than at home, and all land activities are thoroughly enjoyable with the addition of a jacket or sweater.
Packaged teas are quite affordable in the land that invented this drink.
THE WORLD'S MOST DANGEROUS PLACES, The Hard-Core Adventurers Guide to Getting in, Getting Around, and Getting Out , by Robert Young Pelton and Coskun Aral: "This guide is packed with inside info on how to make your way though hot spots, war zones and lethal lands, whether it's Bosnia, Botswana or the South Bronx."
Proponents of an Arctic gas pipeline passing through Indian lands in the Mackenzie Valley to northern Alberta argued that the Dene need revenues from the pipeline to escape poverty, and that in any case they no longer have an autonomous culture.
Some of the buildings date from the 16th century, but it is also lined with buildings of almost every era, including numerous 17th- and 18th-century tenements called “lands,” sometimes 13 stories high.
The island was needed as a military base but was too small for that purpose, so extra land was reclaimed from the sea to create a land area big enough for an air base and naval station.
India is exhilarating, exhausting, and infuriating — a land where, you’ll find, the practicalities of daily life overlay the mysteries that popular myth attaches to India.
The number of Arawak had already fallen dramatically, so the Spanish began to import slaves from Africa to work the land; the first Africans arrived in 1517.
Pervez Musharraf's plane land last month--an event that triggered a military coup orchestrated by Musharraf.
The massive Chioninji is home to the Jodo (“Pure Land”) Buddhist sect, which in the 12th century spread the appeal of Buddhism to the uneducated classes.
Although there are no reliable accounts of this period, third-century Chinese documents speak of a Japanese priestess-queen, Himiko, ruling over a land of law-abiding people who enjoyed alcohol and were divided into classes distinguished by tattoo marks.
The blockade finally ended in May 1949, and West Berlin became a Land linked administratively with, but thus far not politically incorporated into, the new Federal Republic of Germany.
The last 100 million years have seen both a substantial steepening in latitudinal diversity gradients and the fragmentation of continental land masses (Crame 2001).
Be that as it may, a later Australian visitor to English drizzle might feel nostalgic when thinking of the parched and thirsty but water-obsessed vocabulary developed in the drier areas of our sunburnt land.
Hundreds--and quite possibly thousands--of dogs, cats, and other domestic pets are killed by poisoning each year in this cradle of European civilization, this sun-soaked land of vines and olives and cypresses.
It says a lot for the attractions of life in California — and the optimism of those who continue to enjoy it — that despite this dire prediction, millions of people still seek their future in the Golden State’s promised land.
Alternating 600 to 200 million years ago between dry land and sea, the region developed a plant and animal life that decayed to form the oil, coal, and natural gas at the base of the province’s modern prosperity.
In a land where politeness is important, per favore (please), grazie (thank you), prego (don’t mention it), and, when pushing through a bus or market, permesso (excuse me) will be greatly appreciated.
If you come expecting a nightmarish land of charter flights, tour buses, and beer-stained beach hangouts, you may be shocked at how remote and undeveloped many parts of these small islands remain.
The pressure on the land becomes less intense, so rural wages rise; the pool of unemployed urban dwellers always anxious for work shrinks, so factories start to compete with each other for workers, and urban wages also begin to rise.
We Americans, fearful of Sputnik, land men and mass on the moon.
We selected the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) because they used a set of balanced expectations to manage the performance of all or a significant portion of their senior executives prior to the OPM requirement.
"While we are laughing, the seed of some trouble is put into the wide arable land of events," he wrote in 1819.
If the land itself is the most obvious source of French pride, the nation’s cultural wealth is just as important.
They wanted nothing more complicated than to pursue their trade as they saw fit on their own land.
Excluded from the definition of land are the natural resources (that is, depletable resources such as mineral deposits and petroleum; renewable resources such as timber, and the outer-continental shelf resources) related to land.
The federal government is the outright owner of most of the land in Alaska and has financial responsibilities the same as any other landlord.
Land.
The N-340 crosses a vast and dreary plain where every available piece of level land has been covered by ugly plastic greenhouses that produce much of Europe’s winter vegetables.
The Sinai is a wild and dramatically beautiful land pointing south out into the Red Sea.
The issue of land sales has a long history as a subtheme of the Jewish-Arab struggle.
Residents along the corridor worry that the highway would open up huge areas of land for new development.
It is the most undulating of the islands; one could even call it hilly, with the highest point of land in the Commonwealth, Mount Alvernia, rising to the heady heights of 216 ft (66m) above sea level.
I would follow her by land and by sea
As we explained in our June 22 letter, the Counsel failed to supply any evidence from the statutory language, legislative history, or case law to support the assertion that Congress intended the phrase "existing law" to exclude the Constitution, the highest law of the land.
For example, measurement may be on the basis of physical units, such as acres of land.
Not so with trendy new items like Lands' End's $395 "ultimate cashmere sweater."
Northwest Indians lived in a land of vast abundance, the streams flush with fish, the forest thick with game.
Jewish land purchases were not the primary factor, these historians say.
The Prado is the town’s principal thoroughfare, a palm-lined boulevard that takes you down to the spit of land protruding into the bay past smart waterside villas.
It was unclear, however, whether the strain(s) responsible for the infections had a common environmental source lasting for several years or if certain individuals or pets became persistent carriers and continued to expose others even after land application ceased.
Under a 99-year lease, the US acquired about one-tenth of the land area of Bermuda for the development of naval and air bases, modernizing the defenses of Britain’s “Gibraltar of the West.”
West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the coastal areas.
On dry land, government projects haven't fared much better.
In the 18th century a Capuchin monastery occupied land all around the monument and the interior of the base was used as a guest room.
In the past, death threats have done little to deter sales of land.
His warrior successor, Ramses I, heralded the start of the 19th Dynasty to be followed by Seti I 1291–1279 b.c. who won back many of the lands lost during the Akhenaten years.
The implication was that all land would be freely alienable, without being burdened by the residual control of lords higher in the feudal chain.
As the Balkans flared to war once again, Greek nationalism has stirred, and there have been discussions in the kafeneion about the land of Macedonia returning to the fold of its forefathers.
In 1670 the Spanish officially ceded Jamaica to British rule as part of the Treaty of Madrid, and the British began a systematic process of settlement, offering land and aid to prospective settlers.
(The study did show that in countries that adopted land reform growth was more equitable.)
While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands.
The air-dispersion model indicated that adverse effects from exposure to airborne pollutants from the land application site could not be ruled out as a cause of adverse health effects.
Dressed in his maroon robes and beatific smile, the Dalai Lama--the Ocean of Wisdom, the Protector of the Land of Snows, the White Lotus--symbolizes all that's right with the East and wrong with the West.
Inland from the Côte Fleurie the countryside reflects the popular image of Normandy: orchards, rolling valleys, and massive timbered manor houses, the land where apples are turned into cider and Calvados, and dairies churn out pungent, creamy Camem­bert, Livarot, and Pont-l’Evêque.
“Such a land,” said Rudyard Kipling in 1908, “is good for an energetic man.
Stewardship Land - land other than that acquired for or in connection with general PP&E.
The Israeli cabinet agreed in principle to cede more land to Palestinians.
-Investments in stewardship land,8 that is, land not acquired for or in connection with general property, plant, and equipment, for example, national forests, parks, and historic sites.
When Alexander went on to conquer lands as far to the east as India, the Aegean became a crossroads for the long trading routes.
, stewardship land), or probability of being destroyed in use (e.g.
Consider Lands’ End once more.
The price of land was soaring, and developers could make a tidy profit by demolishing them and replacing them with something modern.
Much of the land is extremely fertile and produces a range of tropical fruit and vegetable crops, providing ample food for the people and such lucrative cash crops as sugar and coffee.
"Only the United States understands us, and not, as many people think, because there is a big Jewish community there, but because they see us as the new promised land, like their own America."
The Great South Land was to prove extraordinarily rich in new species, some of which, like the kangaroo, had an irresistible novelty about them; at the same time they were as numerous as sheep in England and as useful to man.
In place of land came water, surging in to fill the 11-km (7-mile) long void and causing massive tidal waves around the Mediterranean Sea.
Complete districts from that time are still in place, replete with multi-story houses (called tenements or “lands”), churches, taverns, and tollhouses.
With the subsequent development of new navigational techniques, it was no longer necessary to stay within sight of land.
Interestingly, bees flying 200 m over water hardly appeared to register an increase in travel distance, whereas the same increase in distance flown over land resulted in a substantial increase in perceived flight distance.
The land of Upper Egypt sits in the south of the country, and it takes its name because it is up-river of the Cairo and Nile Delta area, which are known as Lower Egypt.
The house, one of the oldest on Bermuda, was built around 1725 on land bought by John Trimingham II.
These provided the basis for Hinduism; also, the epics’ heroic battles suggest there was a prolonged struggle for land rights over the fertile plains north and east of modern Delhi, followed by invasions and wars.
The long, disjointed document condemned the Saudi monarchy for allowing the presence of an army of infidels in a land with the sites most sacred to Islam, and celebrated recent suicide bombings of American military facilities in the Kingdom.
This encourages peasants to move in and begin farming the land.
These lands were poles apart from England in every possible way.
Muscat, or muscatel, on the other hand, is found on skid rows all over the land.
5 TPC is defined as the sum total of all costs associated with a project's planning, development, design, construction, outfitting, and startup, not including land costs.
During her lifetime, 69–30 b.c. , the infamous queen attempted to link her land to Rome through her liaison with Julius Caesar.
Yesterday's special issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association , on obesity, lands on the fronts of the Post , NYT , and LAT . Every paper spins it differently.
This description recognizes that as yet unalienated land might have been used as wild pasture, just as an 1867 critic of bureaucratese can complain that the Crown lands are very frequently, in Government phrase, styled the waste lands of the Crown... [though] they cannot... with propriety be called waste lands, for they are applied to the only purpose, speaking of them in general, to which they can ever be applied--grazing.
Affirmative action (even for athletes and preppies) sometimes has a place in this land of second chances, where anyone can grow up to be president.
genome can tell them about the difference between photosynthesis on land and in the sea.
One main reason: Some 1 million Mexicans enter the country's workforce every year, greatly increasing the labor surplus in a land where unemployment and underemployment were estimated by the U.S.
. On the other is Al Gore, notable for (as you put it about JFK Jr.) not living up to his Fair Deal hero father's high standards of integrity and cojones . How can these two turkeys be our leading candidates for the highest office in the land?
The list is decidedly Brit-heavy, with citations for Elizabeth I (Best Leader), Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn (Best Sex Scandal), the purchase of the Suez Canal (Best Land Deal), and Adm.
STEWARDSHIP LAND ANNUAL STEWARDSHIP INFORMATION
Just simple farmers seeking a place in the sun to work a piece of land, the pioneers came at a time when territorial expansion was much in vogue — the French in the Pacific and Algeria, the British in Africa and the Far East.
Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint silhouette of land.
After a final bloody defeat by the Muslims in 1309, Christian forces were forced from the Holy Land.
The problem was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in 1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab allies.
Be that as it may, a later Australian visitor to English drizzle might feel nostalgic when thinking of the parched and thirsty but water-obsessed vocabulary developed in the drier areas of our sunburnt land.
Now, as children tend their gardens, they have a new appreciation of their relationship to the land, their cultural heritage, and their community.
The Netherlands stayed neutral in WWI and efforts in the first half of the century were concentrated on land reclamation which increased agricultural production and living space.
They remind us of the way God introduces himself to Moses in the Book of Exodus: “I am the God of your father . . . So I have come down to rescue [my people] from the hand of Egypt, to bring it up from that land to a land, goodly and spacious, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
Mail your check today (or charge your gift) to help us stop the misuse of vulnerable natural land.
The mystical chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield, and patriot grate, to every living heart and hearth-stone, all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union.
To save this precious, historical land from developers, Audubon worked with a local bank and purchased this land for preservation.
The gate was left isolated in no-man’s land when the Wall went up, and subsequently became the scene of quite ecstatic celebrations when it came down, though now you would scarcely believe it as Berliners cross nonchalantly from east to west through Brandenburg’s mighty central arch.
7 Lincoln’s vision of government “by all the people” was becoming the law of the land.
We will continue to acquire essential tracts of land that protect our wildlife --and manage the preserves we now own or run.
Due west of Havana is Pinar del Río province, Cuba’s westernmost region — a finger of land with the Gulf of Mexico to the north and the Caribbean to the south.
The modern manatees evolved from four-footed land mammals.
But once people read about the physical benefits that accrue from writing, I'm sure that writing clinics will spring up in California, land of all good fads, or if the JAMA study is discredited and writing clinics are outlawed, then they will spring up in Mexico.
A model of the city in 1775 brings home just how much of the present land was under water at one time.
Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government and not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E will be reported as stewardship land.
Product offerings are limited in Web retail sites—the Lands’ End site, for example, offered only 500 products in 1997.
  The delegation to Kuala Lupur to facilitate the smuggling of a dugong to a dentist's waiting room in Sausalito is our symbolic clue:  The "Great Work" in Manistique, Michigan is not just a "Marching Molars Study" sponsored by the Fluoride Foundation of Florida, to implement dental implant research --- it is a front for stem- cell research to genetically combine MANatee genes with those of "land sharks"-- to clone aquatic (cold blooded) humans who will control global stock-markets with their sonar snout-symphonies (Disguised as dreamy melodies of whale songs.)
It is thus synonymous with wild land (also so used in American English) or with the apparently contradictory wild government ground described in 1849 as covered with trees and grass never used before, except for feeding blackfellows, kangaroos, cattle, horses and sheep.
Northwest of the city of Hamilton, in Pembroke Parish, lies a small area of land reaching out into the mouth of Great Sound.
According to the Natural Resources Conservation Service, this single, voluntary program will provide flexible technical, financial, and educational assistance to farmers and ranchers who face serious threats to soil, water, and related natural resources on agricultural and other lands, including grazing lands, wetlands, forest lands, and wildlife habitats.
They thought as landowners they were entitled to use their land to house and slaughter animals as the market required.
Its first written history is found in the Hebrew Bible; for the land about it was Mount Seir of old (now Esh Sera), home of the Horites, cave dwellers whose progenitor was Hori, the grandson of Seir (Gen.
Nichiren’s defiance of both Zen and Jodo (“Pure Land”) Buddhism eventually persuaded the shogunate to order him beheaded on a hill to the south of Hase.
"Acquired for or in connection with" is defined as including land acquired with the intent to construct general PP&E and land acquired in combination with general PP&E, including not only land used as the foundation, but also adjacent land considered to be the general PP&E's common grounds.
After Juan grows up he leaves his mother to wander the land, and from this point on, various tales describe the different adventures of Juan Oso.
You get between 5,000 and 10,000 head of cattle on your land.
Land and lose — so play fools
The Osceola Mills case, Robesonia outbreak, and the occurrence of staphylococcal infections among residents at other land application sites suggest that risks land application practices pose from these pathogens may be higher than expected.
Nevertheless, they all wrote of the loss of land and loss of culture, and sought to preserve the folklore, customs, and stories of their grandparents, close friends, and those who worked for them.
As the years have passed and the Masai population has grown (and more and more of Africa becomes desertified), rangeland has become more scarce and the Masai's precious cattle have had far less land on which to graze.
The earliest recorded use is an 1816 quotation from the Maryland Historical magazine: “The land is old, completely worn out, the farming extremely ornary in general.”
When it was first dug, and the lots of land sold, it was soon realized that this section of the canal (between Vijzelstraat and Leidsestraat) would have the largest houses inhabited by the richest families in the city.
In early 1992, the al Qaeda leadership issued a fatwa calling for jihad against the Western "occupation" of Islamic lands.
The Pilgrims had made a journey to a new land, and the new land promised a partnership with God that was not possible without an exodus from the old world.
Threatening to cut off resources and lands
There was a continuing expansion into new country, new districts, new settlements as land was taken up, opened up or, as the pace grew, thrown open (1830).
Thus, kick the bucket is listed in the category E29e Pork (because of its presumed etymology, Slaughtered pigs are hung by the heels from the bucket or beam) while go west appears under G12e Sunset, bite the dust (questionably defined as brought low) appears at C10f Winning and losing the battle, buy the farm (which I cannot find in the OED ) is listed under E7a Land (where it is labeled as an Americanism, confuting my understanding that it originated with the R.A.F., early in WWII), and cash in your chips/ checks goes under K77c Roulette (which might be all right for a British English classification, but I think that Americans would expect to find it at K81 Poker ).
The NYT fronts and the rest of the papers go inside with what is perhaps the world land speed record for credibility disintegration: not only does that St. Martin's Press book alleging that George W. Bush has a coke conviction in his past not contain a shred of convincing evidence, but it turns out that the book's author is apparently a convicted felon who did a five-year stretch for attempted murder.
The land's sharp features seemed to be The Century's corpse outleant,His crypt the cloudy canopy, The wind his death-lament.The ancient pulse of germ and birth Was shrunken hard and dry,And every spirit upon earth Seemed fervorless as I.
15 Since NIPA focuses on the current production of goods and services and on the income arising from that production, NIPA income and saving do not reflect changes in the value of existing tangible and financial assets, such as land, stocks, or bonds.
It is medieval bazaars, a quartet of Russian musicians performing at the Bible Lands Museum, or the echo of a soprano’s voice inside the Crusader Church of St. Anne.
In the former sense it gives way to government land or to more specific terms for parcels of land like government domain, government farm, government garden, government ground, government paddock, government reserve and government run ; in the latter it comes increasingly to refer to land that is available for grant, lease, or purchase, to distinguish land which is variously described as unlocated, unoccupied or (from slightly later, in the 1840s) unsettled from land which is located or settled.
The old land races can be considered as populations of genes and genetic variability is absolutely essential for further improvement.
120 nations (that's the NYT number; the LAT and USAT say 125) gathered yesterday in Ottawa to sign a comprehensive land mine ban.
Where parcels of stewardship land have more than one use, the predominant use of the land shall be considered the major use.
Within ten years of the Young Pretender’s occupation of Holyrood, Edinburgh’s town council proposed a plan to relieve the chronic overcrowding of the Royal Mile tenements by constructing a New Town on land to the north of the castle.
As for his personal qualities: "a lovable land mine," said Peter Lawford.
Typically, urbanization is defined as fundamental changes in occupation and land use at the community level [ 7 8 ] . However, in many peri-urban areas, populations are still actively engaged in rural-type activity.
Another land mine: Can charities that cut lucrative deals with product makers be counted on to provide accurate information about health and safety issues related to those products?
Kisumu is made up of industrial, commercial, and residential areas, with patches of agricultural land, gardens, tall grass, and a swamp which maintains the riparian and marine ecology along the lakeshore.
It is from here that distant Granada finally fades from view, and the land takes its name from the comments made by the defeated King Boabdil’s mother when he, supposedly, wept while looking back at the city.
assart land converted into arable
But, of course, skepticism could run in every conceivable direction at once, so that once the challenge was made, at least one riposte was possible: Animals, lands, and chattels are not communal by nature, either.
8 The Board is including only surface land as supplementary stewardship information because the issues associated with other than surface land, i.e., the natural resources on and under that land, are complex.
In interviews with La Repubblica of Rome and Corriere della Sera of Milan, the head of the Franciscan order in Israel, which, since 1331, has been charged by the Vatican with guarding the Christian sites in the Holy Land, said the land on which the mosque is to be built was previously earmarked as a parking lot for buses carrying Christian pilgrims to Nazareth during the millennium.
Specifically, they compared the dances of bees flying over water (scenery with low visual contrast) with those of bees flying over land (scenery with relatively high contrast).
They also feared an earthly evil: the Carib Indians, who periodically raided their land for loot and captives.
Often dismissed as a poor military strategist intoxicated by quixotic ambitions, Hitler was in fact extremely adept at sizing up his opponents' weaknesses and understood acutely the "supreme importance of land power" with the "motorization of military movement."
Another 500,000 or more enter illegally without inspection across America's thousands of miles of land borders or remain in the country past the expiration of their permitted stay.
The Dead Sea is by far the lowest point of land in the world.
In Cop Land , Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the loser sheriff of Garrison, N.J., just across the George Washington Bridge from Manhattan.
However, no amounts for stewardship land acquired through donation or devise25 shall be recognized as a cost in calculating net cost.
Rand Memorial Nature Centre, on 100 acres of land on East Settlers Way to the east of Freeport, is used as a resource for students on the island, but there’s nothing dry and academic about it.
Sources cited Thursday by al-Quds al-Arabi conceded that there had been an argument between bin Laden and the Taliban's supreme leader, Mullah Mohammad Omar, about bin Laden's advocacy of a "fatwa" against Americans and Jews, calling for attacks on them worldwide until U.S. forces quit Muslim lands.
BLM incorporated performance elements in senior executives' individual performance plans for the rating year ending June 2000 that were structured around its strategic goals to (1) "Restore and Maintain the Health of the Land," (2) "Serve Current and Future Publics," and (3) "Improve Organizational Effectiveness."
According to Plato this rich, happy land, lying somewhere to the west of Gibraltar in the Atlantic Ocean, was destroyed by earthquakes and tidal waves nearly 12,000 years ago.
So, for those of you asking highly technical questions concerning the operation of your personal computers, let it be known across the land that the Shopping Avenger still writes on papyrus.
PERCENT OF FEDERALLY OWNED LAND IN EACH STATEl
One of the great joys of the south is the extent to which it is still virgin land for the majority of Italy’s visitors.
To avoid the opportunity to collect your own list of prison slang words, obey the laws of the land.
Land" is defined as the solid part of the surface of the earth.
The Maya went out on raiding parties, taking hostages from the surrounding lands to use in their bloody ceremonies.
Stewardship Land
The city has drawn Christian visitors, sometimes heavily armed, ever since the proclamation of the “Holy Land” and development of the first Christian sites for pilgrims in the fifth century.
Dexter Scott King is going to be there with you this time, and we will make it to the promised land."
LAND -Land is the solid part of the surface of the earth.
Where swamp gives way to dry land, you will see the fascinating, monstrous strangler-figs.
How could the testimony of a man like Chambers, Hiss asked with icy contempt, visibly unkempt, overweight, and "forbiddingly drab" (in Lionel Trilling's phrase), with no style and little personal status, a man who had lived, in Hiss' words, "in the sewers, plotting against his native land," possibly outweigh the simple facts of Hiss' career as Harvard graduate, trusted aide to FDR at Yalta, and one of the architects of the United Nations?
This action altered the perception that San Juan was a citadel city — already an anachronism at the time — and plans were drawn up to develop the area immediately east of the city, an area that became known as Puerta de Tierra or “gateway to the land.”
Many Palestinians, however, stayed put, retained their land, and became Israeli citizens.
The company that hired the workers for the Olathe farm and the farmer whose land they were working have denied any role in making the workers sick.
In 1955 the British government signed the Hawksbill Agreement, which gave Groves 50,000 acres (20,000 hectares) of land and a concession to import duty-free goods.
A few years ago, this neighborhood was a no man's land.
The number of physical units of stewardship land by category of major use, broken down within that category by principal holding agency.
Benáki was born in a Greek community in Egypt, and many of the artifacts on display originate from this other ancient land, though there is a good range of Classical and Roman statuary, and collections from the Early Christian and Byzantine eras including two paintings by El Greco.
At one point, the cost of the Brewers' proposed stadium grew from $250 million to $845 million, and that's not counting the value of the land.
"Land" is defined as the solid part of the surface of the earth.
There is only a narrow strip of flat land between the mountains and the sea, or in some places none at all.
The Natives, rightful owners of the land, are immutable, their pithy pidginisms ("Man builds great boats of iron, but the sea is stronger") deserving of the utmost reverence ("You must remember what he said.
executing the National Fire Plan, (4) developing opportunities for alternative sources of energy in land use planning and program implementation, (5) completing new or revised land use plans as proposed in congressional justifications, and (6) achieving targets for abandoned mine lands/herd management areas consistent with the revised wild horse and burro strategy and BLM's annual performance plan.
Even if you don’t land a bargain, there is real aesthetic pleasure in seeing, at the end of the verbal “combat,” the disarray of silks thrown across a counter or a mound of carpets on the floor.
There are six worlds in the Navajo story, four of which lie below our earth, and one--a land of perfection and harmony--which lies above.
quantities (stated in terms of physical units or dollars) of land, heritage assets, and Federal mission property.
His source was the Roman leader Sertorius, who had heard of the lands from an explorer.
That the Roosevelts managed to keep all these plates in the air, while also raising five children and sharing the presidency of the United States, is just another big reminder that any one marriage is a stranger and more mysterious land than an outsider can possibly know.
The research area is located in Guayaguayare on private land belonging to a State-owned oil company.
But Nepal and the Mallas became fragmented upon the death in 1482 of King Yaksha Malla, who divided his lands amongst his heirs.
And Hill was not too horrified to follow Thomas' rising star from the Department of Education to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), nor to keep in touch with Thomas in subsequent years--getting him to write a letter of recommendation that helped her land a law teaching job, phoning him repeatedly, inviting him to make an appearance at the law school, and more.
The monetary wealth and vast tracts of land owned by the monasteries were redistributed according to Henry’s favor.
If we use the same standard for both, Hillary was a great success (more people talked about health care than are talking about land mines) and, at best, the jury is still out on Diana (though I imagine land mines will go on killing people for decades to come).
This article is concerned with the first fifty years of settlement, 1788-1838 and begins with the two collocations Crown land and waste land , which sometimes coalesce in the uniquely Australian waste lands of the Crown.
Some investments in heritage assets, for example national parks, will be reported by both 1) the number of physical units identified as national parks in the heritage assets category, and by 2) the number of acres used as a park or an historic site in the stewardship land category (see Chapter 4 of this document).
The lure of the Bahamas is, of course, as much about the sea as it is about the land.
Double federal support for research at land grant universities.
No asset amount shall be shown on the balance sheet of the Federal financial statements for stewardship land.
Queen Helena, a devout Christian and the mother of Emperor Constantine the Great, made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 326 to identify the sites associated with Jesus’s life.
Areport from Phnom Penh in the South China Morning Post quoted the Cambodian Ministry of Health as saying that traffic accidents now outstripped land mine and other war-related injuries as a major cause of death in Cambodia.
NEADS: When did he land?
Moses died on the journey to the Promised Land, but Joshua took over from him, and between 1400 b.c. and 1000 b.c. the tribes of Israel conquered all the lands north and south of Jerusalem, most famously bringing the walls of Old Jericho tumbling down with the sounds of their horns.
[is] more or less standard fare for an active first lady's visit to the Holy Land.
For example, emissions resulting from the construction of such a new or modified unit may not cause or contribute to the violation of a Class I increment unless the federal land manager certifies that the emissions from the facility will have no adverse impact on the air quality related values of the Class I area.
If you feel drawn by a rendezvous with the Midnight Sun, make for these immense lands covering one-third of Canada’s total surface, where, compared to the icy expanses inside the Arctic Circle, the tundra passes for lush meadowland.
Among the possible agencies with relevant experience, we selected the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) because they provided variation in mission, size, and organizational structures.
The designation of the name came about after the land west of the Jordan River was annexed by Jordan in 1950.
2. chorometry : land surveying :: atmidometry : ?
"Acquired for or in connection with" is defined as including land acquired with the intent to construct general PP&E and land acquired in combination with general PP&E, including not only land used as the foundation, but also adjacent land considered to be the general PP&E's common grounds.
Their rebellion was aborted, but the society remained active and was influential in the efforts of the National Land League, founded in 1879, which sought to change the tenant system.
In her self-assessment for the 2001 performance appraisal cycle, she stated that she began conducting land use assessments for Gunnison Gorge and approved "pre-plans," which outline the anticipated schedule, budget, and stakeholder involvement to complete a land use plan.
Chessel’s Land, on the left, was the place where Deacon Brodie was finally caught in 1788.
When the pair land in colonial America, they hook up with Benjamin Franklin, finding not a parsimonious Puritan but a turned-on, pre-psychedelic party animal.
Serve current and future publics: Ensure the National Environmental Policy Act and environmental analyses are sufficient to sustain program decisions; reduce threats to public health, safety, and property by completing deferred maintenance projects; continue action on energy and mineral leases, permits, and claims; implement BLM's wild horse and burro national strategy in accordance with program directives; and improve land, resource, and title information by participating in the development and implementation of bureauwide data standards.
The “land beyond the Tagus” (alem Tejo in Arabic) is a hot and dusty plain, sheathed in wheat, olive and cork trees, separating Lisbon from the Algarve.
First, buy environmentally sensitive land and start raping it.
Besides Prairie State, LSC also funds the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, and Alton-based Land of Lincoln Legal Services.
Completed in 1972 it has achieved both, but the fertility of Egyptian farming land is now falling as it is cut off from the yearly layer of fresh nutrients brought by the flood.
While the land mine has been proscribed by three-quarters of U.N. members (not including Russia, China, India and--most important--the United States), Angola remains "its macabre shop window," the paper said.
Grande-Terre (Great Land) is smaller (565 sq km/218 sq miles), drier, flatter, and more important because it has Pointe-à-Pitre, Guadeloupe’s commercial center and largest city.
Robert A. Heinlein envisaged a more optimistic future in his 1961 novel, Stranger in a Strange Land . Its Martian-reared main character advocates advancing the empathic capability of the human mind so humans can grok `embrace others with profound, intuitive understanding.
To contribute to its strategic goal to restore and maintain the health of the land, BLM set an expectation for senior executives to understand and plan for the condition and use of public lands.
These new lands included the stronghold of Edinburgh.
Not until travel by land supplemented and eventually replaced that by sea did incremental borrowing became at least a possibility, just as the passage of time meant that there was a likelihood that a language would be more fully and more competently recorded.
In fact, all of the hotel rooms and conference facilities were donated to the group after another organization announced at the end of June that it was calling off its convention, leaving the facilities open, said Linda Zazove, deputy director of Land of Lincoln and a member of the conference's planning committee.
His kingdom prospered, and by the time his son Solomon succeeded him, in about 965 b.c. , almost all the extensive, rich lands between the rivers Nile and the Euphrates were part of the Kingdom of Israel.
The Guardian of London, in a front-page report from Sydney Tuesday, said that one suggestion due to be discussed by tribal elders of the Dharawal people was that Botany Bay (so called because of the exotic plant life found there by Captain Cook) should change its name to "Gillingarie," a word in the Dharawal language meaning "land that belongs to us all."
Some investments in stewardship land, for example national parks, will be reported by both 1) the number of acres used as a park or an historic site in the stewardship land category, and 2) by the number of physical units identified as national parks in the heritage assets category.
Guangdong Province has some of China’s most fertile land, and grows two crops of rice a year, along with vegetables of all kinds.
A new school of Jewish historians is more critical of the dislocations caused by Jewish land acquisition, and concludes that it was not always fair.
With nearby basing options limited, an alternative was to fly from ships in the Arabian Sea or from land bases in the Persian Gulf, as was done after 9/11.
Japan’s 120 million inhabitants have to crowd the coastal plains and the narrow river valleys despite a total land area greater than Germany’s.
This high land cost, along with the high cost of constructing underground parking, means that more parking might not be economically feasible (i.e.
CP treated children living near land application sites in Menifee, CA and participated in the acquisition and interpretation of medical data.
Four distinct peoples once inhabited the land now known as Scotland: the Picts in the north, the Britons in the southwest, the invading Angles in the southeast, and the Scots in the west.
According to British land records, the Jerusalem mufti's 1934 decree failed to prevent sales.
The exception, stewardship PP&E, consists of Federal mission PP&E, heritage assets, and stewardship land.
Behind Gladstone’s Land is Lady Stair’s Close, which leads to Lady Stair’s House, now home to the Writers’ Museum.
However, it so happens that this name is actually (though coincidentally) both meaningful and appropriate, since it translates as sea land.
assisting in the development of options to establish conservation reserves, (2) improving the productivity and diversity of public lands,
Taking Cavendish Road out of Hamilton leads to Middle Road, which runs through the widest section of land in Bermuda.
Will Syria and Israel find peace in the land of the Hatfields and the McCoys?
Land not acquired for or in connection with22 items of general PP&E, that is, stewardship land, shall be reported as required supplementary stewardship information accompanying the financial statements of the Federal Government and the separate reports of component units of the Federal Government responsible for such land.
In 1516, the Turkish Ottoman dynasty conquered the whole of Jerusalem and the Holy Land, extending their Middle-Eastern empire.
Instead, you're still leading with Jacob Weisberg on Clinton's African apology ("Sorry Excuse") and Cullen Murphy's discourse on lying ("The Lie of the Land").
The acquisition cost of stewardship land shall be considered an expense in the period acquired when determining the net cost of operations.
They established communities in lands surrounding the Mediterranean and elsewhere.
The NYT piece frames this as do-nothing action, designed to temporarily quiet demands coming simultaneously from the Israeli right-wing, Palestinians, and the U.S. (which is pressing Netanyahu to cede land quickly).
There is little to hold you in the town, except for a finger of land reaching north out into the ocean.
In interviews with La Repubblica of Rome and Corriere della Sera of Milan, the head of the Franciscan order in Israel, which, since 1331, has been charged by the Vatican with guarding the Christian sites in the Holy Land, said the land on which the mosque is to be built was previously earmarked as a parking lot for buses carrying Christian pilgrims to Nazareth during the millennium.
Responding to the wildfires that burned over 6.5 million acres of public and private land in 2000, the Congress appropriated an additional $240 million in fiscal year 2001 to reduce hazardous fuels in high-risk locations where wildlands and urban areas meet.
Scattered across the land are hundreds of dovecotes, which were introduced throughout the Aegean by the Venetians, who enjoyed pigeon as a part of their diet.
The television coverage is all too average as well: Lots of Johnny on the spots, excitedly telling what they know "at this point" (not much) and second-guessing themselves by telling TV Land which neighborhood the police are searching, then showing the neighborhood from a helicopter, then deciding that it was a boneheaded move to show where, exactly, the police are hunting (let's not let the shooter know where the cops are!)
The levels of the three CTX isoforms α L, β Land α Dwere 2.3-fold to 2.7-fold higher in the postmenopausal women (Table 1), in accordance with previous reports of CTX levels during the menopause [ 15 ] . As all forms were elevated to the same magnitude in postmenopause, the ratios between the newly synthesised α LCTX form and the older β Land α DCTX forms was not significantly different in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
Despite the fact that the local land was rich in silver, by 1865 most of the mining traffic through Las Vegas was of prospectors headed to California or Northern Nevada in search of gold.
If we replaced the current property tax on land and buildings with a tax falling solely on the value of land, vacant lots in cities and along the roads leading out of them would be built upon, instead of held for speculation.
Land not acquired for or in connection with22 items of general PP&E, that is, stewardship land, shall be reported as required supplementary stewardship information accompanying the financial statements of the Federal Government and the separate reports of component units of the Federal Government responsible for such land.
In about 1250 b.c. , Moses, the Israelites’ new leader, parted the Red Sea and led his people back to Canaan to confront the Philistines, who now controlled much of the land.
7 billion in grants to general aviation airports to pay for construction and improvement and has given federally owned land to 450 airports.
manages the energy and minerals resources on the OCS and collects the amounts due the Government and Indian tribes from minerals produced on the OCS and other Federal and Indian lands.
Spring and autumn offer the clearest air for panoramic views of the surrounding land; in summer, a heat-induced haze rises, cutting long distance visibility.
"It's getting tougher and tougher to find what you want, especially if you're shopping from catalogs," Brady said, stoking the hysteria with his report of "tight stock" at Lands' End and L.L.
Hubbell is charged with covering up his and Mrs. Clinton's legal work on a crooked Arkansas land deal.
The total percentage of Utah's school budget supplied from School Trust Lands is around 2 percent.
Like a deep-sea volcano bursting to the surface, spewing out vast new lands soon to be inhabited by a complex ecosystem, the Web is creating a virtual landscape that will soon be occupied by an awesome array of economic organisms.
On the other hand, many lands see the world with a single eye: a new broom does sweep better than one with worn-out bristles.
I see the administration is getting ready to let Elian Gonzalez, the cuban boy/political football, go back to his native land.
Selling Land to Jews
Peat bogs, where tug lies waiting, occur in the lowest land around.
Starting around 1910, Arab newspapers railed against Jewish land acquisition.
The price of American land reflects the value of living in the United States of America.
Parking real estate is not quite as valuable as land in the Hamptons, but it has a similar characteristic: The supply isn't getting any bigger, even as the demand grows.
Rutland, the historic county (of which Oakham, above, was the county town), does not mean root land or red land or even rutted land but Rōta's land, from a personal name.
Patrick Leahy, to the effect that the United States intends to sign the international treaty banning land mines by 2006.
Drinking--21, in accordance with the law of the land
wait - A 1730 deed from Thomas Hadden of Scarsdale, N.Y. “to John ffisher a certain small wait or parcel of Land lying and being situate in the Mannor of ScarsDale aforesaid.”
Blamed for Starting Hopeless Asian Land War 15 Years Too Soon
Considering that an estimated 100 million anti-personnel land mines are deposited around the world and people are being "killed or injured at a rate of one person every 20 minutes," it said, "the world cannot wait until 2006."
A millennium later when I asked a nearby resident about the land marker, although he had not seen it, he without hesitation called it a merestone .
When Jodie Foster finally sets forth in the transport--read no further if you don't want to hear the movie's ending--she lands on a peaceful tropical beach thoughtfully provided by the aliens to cushion her culture shock.
wong a portion of unenclosed land
Words which through their coinage reflect the utilization of the land give some measure of the environmental impact --if I may use an anachronism.
"TRB" calls the ban on land mines the "politics of sentiment" and advocates clearing old mines from now-peaceful countries instead of prohibiting them from war zones like the DMZ in Korea.
To locate meant, similarly, to allocate (a parcel of land), to settle (oneself) on a piece of land, or to select (a piece of land).
He has much to gain from the peace process: more power and land for his government, for one.
' Any book that keeps us literallly glued to our seat actually keeps us figuratively glued to our seat, a near miss (which is a`collision') is a `near hit,' something that falls between the cracks would in reality land on the planks or the concrete, a big traffic bottleneck is a `small bottleneck,' and a hot cup of coffee is really a `cup of hot coffee.
"I mean by a picture," he wrote, "a beautiful romantic dream of something that never was, never will be--in a light better than any light that ever shone--in a land no one can define, or remember, only desire."
Their intentions are unclear: Do they hope to grab land from Zaire?
Israel confiscated all land owned by the British government, mostly desert and mountains, after the 1948 War of Independence . Property owned by Arab refugees, who either fled war zones or were forced from their homes by the Israeli army (another long-standing controversy), was also taken over by individual Jews or confiscated by the government.
They have a constitutional right to walk over other people's land without permission.
India controls two-thirds of the land and more than three quarters of the population.
"How do you feel in the Holy Land?"
So does the former name for the colony, Van Diemen's Land (so named by the Dutch explorer Abel Tasman), or its facetious variant, Vandemonia (former Tasmanian convicts being known on the mainland as Vandemonians).
China is clearing land mines along its border with Vietnam.
And if someone could acquire the land to build a private road beside a public one, we should not begrudge him because he removes some traffic from the common infrastructure.
It is a term for the promised land in the Book of Mormon and is supposed to mean land of the honeybee.
Squatter, not in the American and earliest Australian sense of one who illegally occupies land but in the main Australian sense of one who has title to a tract of grazing land, is recorded in 1837 and is essentially a word of the 1840s; but in the earlier period both runs and stations were being established for the grazing of sheep and cattle.
The value of a river frontage was recognized, land distant from water being known as back country.
As the CBO points out, the government's guarantee of Fannie Mae's debt is just like a giveaway of federal land or hydroelectric power.
It worked well in Germany and in Russia; all voices except those officially approved were silenced in those lands by intimidation."
To locate meant, similarly, to allocate (a parcel of land), to settle (oneself) on a piece of land, or to select (a piece of land).
This article is concerned with the first fifty years of settlement, 1788-1838 and begins with the two collocations Crown land and waste land , which sometimes coalesce in the uniquely Australian waste lands of the Crown.
We've broken the sound barrier on land and in water, circled the globe by water and by air.
“The land law was on the move--in a solemn progression of rules and technical evasions.
Navy planes as they land on aircraft carriers.
The Palestinian Authority's decision to make the sale of land to Jews a capital crime reflects Palestinian frustration with Israeli land use, specifically the creation of a new Jewish neighborhood now under construction in East Jerusalem.
There may well be large pockets of gay hatred in the land, but it's not something I can gauge because I rarely see it in my daily life.
Le Monde of Paris led its front page Wednesday with the headline "Kosovo emptied of half its population" and said in an editorial that President Slobodan Milosevic knows--"because we have been at pains to tell him"--that he need not fear a land offensive, and he knows the limits of the air bombardments.
But the Sunday Times urged "escalating NATO's attacks to maximum pitch, redoubling its efforts to avoid civilian targets, pushing ahead with plans for the use of land forces, and keeping the diplomatic pressure on Milosevic to agree to terms."
But a much larger grouping of coinages bears witnesses to the embryonic pastoral industry: cattle walk, cattle hunting, cattle run, cattle station; stock agent, stock driver, stock establishment, stock horse, stock house, stock hut, stock proprietor, stock property, stock run, stock station; sheep country, sheep downs, sheep establishment, sheep hills, sheep holder, sheep land, sheep master, sheep overseer, sheep owner, sheep proprietor, sheep watchman, sheep yard.
By the 1820s and '30s, most states were allowing all white men to vote (before that, they had to own land), and President Andrew Jackson was leading his famous "war" on the national bank.
Zionists argued that the land purchases benefited all the territory's residents.
The Jewish National Fund's charter was amended to mandate that Jewish land could never be resold to Arabs or opened to non-Jewish employees.
And I suddenly thought, "Is this the man I want representing the righteousness of America in a land sacred to billions of Jews, Christians, and Moslems?"
We have gone back Far past our fathers' land.
There are two kinds of law, wrote Thomas Paine in 1805: "Legislative law is the law of the land, enacted by our own legislators, chosen by the people for that purpose.
Nothing to do for this file.
Following Alexander’s death, his lands were divided among his generals.
Greece was handed a strip of land along the western coast of Asia Minor, which for over 2,000 years had had a substantial Greek population.
Queen Helena, a devout Christian and the mother of Emperor Constantine the Great, made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 326 to identify the sites associated with Jesus’s life.
The badges and vestiges of slavery still haunt the land.
For in Paris they told the elf Our rough North land was the Land of Lays,
Land where the Pilgrims pried.
There are several old lands found down the narrow wynds leading off the main street.
They remind us of the way God introduces himself to Moses in the Book of Exodus: “I am the God of your father . . . So I have come down to rescue [my people] from the hand of Egypt, to bring it up from that land to a land, goodly and spacious, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
To save this precious, historical land from developers, Audubon worked with a local bank and purchased this land for preservation.
After the spectacular panorama viewed from Gibb’s Hill Lighthouse (on one of Bermuda’s highest points), the land narrows to a string of small islands held together by a series of small bridges leading eventually to the sites of Britain’s former glory.
When Anglo Americans moved into Texas and bought enormous tracts of land, they established huge ranches and hired Mexican vaqueros to work them.
But the struggle continues, because our remaining natural land won't be around much longer unless we work together to save it now.
A society whose indigenous religion centers on nature worship for decades has tolerated appalling environmental damage — commercially exploiting its own nature reserves for timber, lining river banks and beds with concrete, and filling its air, water, and land with dioxins and other pollutants.
Chinese cooking lands in Cuba, and Cuban-Chinese cuisine is invented.
Three years ago, the Heritage Trust set aside land for the restoration of the Limberlost Swamp, near Geneva in eastern Indiana.
The ancient city of Cádiz, sitting at the end of a very narrow peninsula of land that runs parallel to the coast, was founded by the Phoenicians in 1100 b.c. and is considered to be Spain’s oldest town.
In 1964, four-score-years-and-one after the initial defeat in the Supreme Court, the country could once again say that equal access to theaters and public accommodations was the law of the land.
In 1729 Benjamin Franklin said a journalist ought to be qualified with an extensive acquaintance with languages, a great easiness and command of writing and relating things clearly and intelligibly, and, in a few words, he should be able to speak of war both by land and sea, be well acquainted with geography, with the history of the time, with the several interests of princes and states, the secrets of courts, and the manners and customs of all nations.
Not so much a melting-pot as a “land of unlimited impossibilities,” Israel compresses a host of sights and lifestyles into a small area, offering a cornucopia of experiences for visitors.
Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by assuring that assessments and land use plans are completed.
The Pilgrims had made a journey to a new land, and the new land promised a partnership with God that was not possible without an exodus from the old world.
Princes Street is to Scots what Oxford Street is to the English — the premier shopping street of the land.
In his self-assessment for the 2001 performance appraisal cycle, the senior executive stated that he continues to use the RAC as a highly effective citizen advisory group that plays a significant role in land management deliberations.
But they have destroyed the electrical fencing that rings the properties and driven their own herds onto the land to graze."
The important feature is openness, as in collocations like open forest, open forest country, and open forest land.
It was the heyday of the brilliant but lethal Spanish-Italian Borgias: lecherous Rodrigo, who became Pope Alexander VI, and treacherous son Cesare, who stopped at nothing to control and expand the papal lands.
Membership in the nation is now defined by birth on the land, and the fact of nationality, legally recognized as citizenship, generates the most basic right of the new legal order.
The room service porter, who is actually a local operative helping them avert the female genital mutilation scheduled for two days hence, informs M & F that, in moving onto the private land, "the Masai have not seized houses or harmed ranchers.
(Aristocrats have land, even penniless, not money.)
But along the way, scores of laborers had died hacking through the mountains, buffalo were exterminated, and Indians and Métis were dispossessed of their lands.
Federal mission PP&E excludes land whether the land is general PP&E land or stewardship land.
As John Brown was led to the gallows on the eve of the Civil War, having unsuccessfully sought to stimulate a slave revolt, he handed one of his guards a note, “I John Brown am now quite certain that the crimes of this guilty land will never be purged away but with blood.”
"ELF Lib," as it is called by its adherents, is alleged to have burned 45 Hummer vehicles last year in the parking lot of EuroDisney and to have secreted a communiqué claiming their action was "Operation Heraclitean Fire," for "little people of all ages," in a toadstool in Swiss Miss Land.
"This land is our land.
Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government and not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E will be reported as stewardship land.
If by land on a military train.)
"Yes," replies Ferd, booting up the computer plans of the hospital they target for the rescue operation, "Signed on Aug. 15, 1904, with the illiterate Masai using thumbprints, the document said the Masai leaders 'of our own free will, decided that it is for our best interests to remove our people, flocks, and herds into definite reservations away from the railway line, and away from any land that may be thrown open to European settlement.
The sore feelings of a harassed parent bringing up mischievous boys might be soothed by the Shetland motto Mony a pellit [troublesome] foal haes made a good horse or Dere broken pots in aa lands , as a reminder that the problem is universal.
Just north of the tower are the headquarters of two schools of the Jodo-Shinshu (“Pure Land”) sect, the Nishi-Honganji and Higashi-Honganji temples.
executing the National Fire Plan, (4) developing opportunities for alternative sources of energy in land use planning and program implementation, (5) completing new or revised land use plans as proposed in congressional justifications, and (6) achieving targets for abandoned mine lands/herd management areas consistent with the revised wild horse and burro strategy and BLM's annual performance plan.
8 The Board is including only surface land as supplementary stewardship information because the issues associated with other than surface land, i.e., the natural resources on and under that land, are complex.
When fire spreads from public to private land, the government often gets sued.
The cuts will take the biggest bite out of Land of Lincoln, a network of eight offices and 40 lawyers who help clients in southern Illinois with problems such as eviction, access to Social Security and obtaining orders of protection from abusive spouses, Kleiman said.
Anyone seeking to understand Canada’s role in shaping North America should spare a few days for this bracing province of hardy fisherfolk — first Canadian land to be “found” and last to join the Confederation (incorporating Labrador), in 1949.
He's worth more than $100 million, but most of the fortune is tied up in land and antiques.
Land of Lincoln helped Tasha Johnson of Marion get Social Security benefits to support her four children after the 29-year-old woman was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a type of cancer, she said.
He also encroached on a bit of park land in the process, just as a thousand other Seattleites had.
Federal mission PP&E excludes land whether the land is general PP&E land or stewardship land.
In the Arctic region, the stabilization of the sea level and a dramatic cooling of the climate around 1500 b.c. caused hunters to switch from land mammals to fish, seal, walrus, whale, and ice-dwelling polar bear.
After a leisurely free fall, the smoke jumper and the ornithologist land safely, though minor damage to the hero's kneecap serves as an occasion for the new year's most unforgettable line thus far: "I need an orthopedist--and you're a birdwatcher."
The problem was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in 1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab allies.
Millions of blacks were transported to "homelands," small tracts of land considered foreign countries.
Restore and maintain the health of the land: Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by conducting assessments and completing land use plan evaluations; restore at-risk resources and maintain functioning systems, particularly riparian areas and watersheds; incorporate management land health standards into decisions and plans; implement the National Fire Plan; and emphasize resource protection by assuring that work commitments for monitoring and inspection are met, appropriate enforcement actions are taken, and results are recorded.
The interior of San Salvador is dotted with lakes; there is a great deal of marshy land and only one major road.
Courts consider it undesirable for someone to control property or land for hundreds of years after his death.
The cuts will take the biggest bite out of Land of Lincoln, a network of eight offices and 40 lawyers who help clients in southern Illinois with problems like eviction, access to Social Security and obtaining orders of protection from abusive spouses.
Not surprisingly, therefore, it is one of the Holy Land’s many religious hot-spots.
The following tier of headlines, "Cultural Concierge/Land of the Pharoahs/Art in the age of the pyramids," communicates no sense of what this piece is actually about or why I need to read it now, as opposed to several thousand years ago.
To indicate the general symptomatology, we surveyed 48 affected residents at ten land application sites in Alabama, California, Florida, New Hampshire, Ohio, Ontario, Pennsylvania, and Texas (Table 1).
Kashmir is a serenely beautiful and coveted land of green forest, alpine meadows, and lakes, while the Punjab in the northwest is the fertile center of the country’s Green Revolution, supporting the nation’s self-sufficiency in wheat, barley, and millet.
So by giving the president a sufficiently diversified portfolio--some ranch land in Wyoming, a bit of California coastline, a few blocks in the South Bronx, a hill in Tennessee--we can ensure that the nation's interests and his personal interests coincide.
During this investigation, the FBI learned that Aulaqi knew individuals from the Holy Land Foundation and others involved in raising money for the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas.
The desert is no monotonous expanse of sand dunes, but a beautiful, variegated land full of color and space.
The dropping of goulash communism (1968 citation; economic approach in thencommunist Hungary emphasizing greater production of consumer goods) and gramadan (1970 citation; Hindi loanword applied to a Gandhian form of land collectivization in India), both in the 1963 book but not in TBDNE , reflects the fact that, in a living language, citations require different analysis and judgment after the perspective of time is added.
By general agreement and city ordinance, all buildings must be faced with Jerusalem limestone, giving the city’s different worlds an architectural unity and tying the city in a special way to the land on which it rests.
• GPRA- (1) Restore and maintain the health of the land by conducting assessments and completing land use plan actions as planned, (2) serve current and future publics by ensuring the National Environmental Policy Act and environmental analyses are sufficient to sustain program decisions implementing the President's Energy Plan while assuring that the National Environmental Policy Act and planning guidelines are met, and (3) implementing BLM's wild horse and burro national strategy.
The first wave of California immigrants arrived somewhere between 20,000 and 35,000 years ago — wandering Asiatic tribes who entered the American continent via the Bering Strait, which at that time was dry land, or perhaps covered in ice.
Finkelstein's reputation rests on his refutation of Joan Peters' 1984 From Time Immemorial , a book purporting to prove Palestinian Arabs had no claims on the land that is now Israel, having been drawn to it only by reports that Jews were making the desert bloom.
LAND -Land is the solid part of the surface of the earth.
It tells us that Abraham made a covenant with God which called for his descendants to conquer many lands.
Land where the Pilgrims pried.
Ocean water temperatures are much less variable than those on land, although variability in the ocean surrounding Antarctica is much reduced compared with that of the Arctic (Figure 1B).
Rupert’s Land was bought from the H.B.C.
Foreign degree candidates don't speak English well enough to teach effectively, edge their American peers out of the field, and may eventually return to their native lands, brain-draining American research.
Where parcels of stewardship land have more than one use, the predominant use of the land is considered the major use.
To provide grazing land for sheep, which were raised for both wool and meat, large tracts of the forest that originally blanketed the whole area were cleared.
The Middle East peace deal, signed yesterday after nine days of intense negotiations, sprawls across all front pages--the Washington Post , the New York Times , and the Los Angeles Times . The papers' tone is cautiously optimistic: They concur that the agreement--in which Israel cedes more West Bank land to the Palestinians and gets promises of increased security--essentially retraces the 1993 and 1995 Oslo accords.
Today, 70% of all land is in the northern hemisphere, and between latitudes 30° and 60° north, the ratio of water to land is about 1:1, whereas between 30° and 60° south, it is approximately 16:1.
Flights into Kunming, the capital of Yunnan Province, land on an unexpectedly long runway that has a dramatic history, commemorated neither by plaques nor monuments.
America, the country Europe's rabbis condemned as the trayfe medina --the unholy land, the faithless land--is now producing a literature of faith.
The extreme Islamist version of history blames the decline from Islam's golden age on the rulers and people who turned away from the true path of their religion, thereby leaving Islam vulnerable to encroaching foreign powers eager to steal their land, wealth, and even their souls.
On land, there is a wealth of animal and bird life.
In Africa, Australia, India, and Southeast Asia, El Niño parches land, devastates crops, and causes famine.
Land and land rights24 owned by the Federal Government and acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E shall be accounted for and reported as general PP&E.
Towards the end of the first millennium the land we now call the Netherlands was ruled by a number of feudal lords — assorted counts, dukes, and bishops who had total power over the land and the people who lived on it.
You might end up with such a brave battalion of heroes that when a grenade lands in their midst, there is a competition to see who gets to jump on it to save the others.
In 1823, Major Thomas Blanchard constructed Martello Tower on high ground behind the two forts, where soldiers could survey the surrounding land and coastline.
, land might be used more profitably for apartments, office space, and hotels).
Some respondents requested that the standards provide for reporting additional information, such as transfers of stewardship property to foreign governments, stewardship land sold to the private sector, the Federal Government's interest in such things as property held by nonfederal entities or patents generated through Federal research and development funds, and foreign contributions to Federal programs.
Crysler was a farmer on whose land an important battle was fought in the War of 1812, marked by a monument beside the village.
Located districts was synonymous with settled districts, the limits of location (or boundaries or bounds) the further extent of settlement, the boundary within which land was surveyed and available for legal tenure, the border , as it was also known.
For the β Land α DCTX markers, respectively, 47 and 48% of the metastatic patients had levels 2 SDs above the reference level of nonmetastasised controls (Fig.
It’s built on undulating land that radiates out from a fishing harbor where a small fleet still moors and sells its catch.
Expectations that the ANC would oversee land reform--returning land seized during apartheid's forced migrations--and wealth redistribution have not been met.
GENERAL PP&E LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
Grants of tax-free land over the years had been made to Buddhist temples and members of the court aristocracy.
It registers a process of improvement, improve being an originally American usage, Australian from the 1830s, referring to the bringing of land into agricultural or pastoral use, and including clearing, the provision of fences, buildings, etc., with the intention of increasing the land's productivity.
For stewardship land and heritage assets, measurement will be done on other than a financial basis.
Basse-Terre (Low Land), is higher, bigger (808 sq km/312 sq miles), greener, and has the political capital, also called Basse-Terre, which is near the famous will-it-or-won’t-it Soufrière volcano.
But as far as personal conduct goes, The Nation is probably as conventionally virtuous as any magazine in the land.
Examples of stewardship land include land used as forests and parks, and land used for wildlife and grazing.
Back at the airport, cross the bridge and turn left to get to Ferry Point, an important strategic area of land at the western tip of St. George’s Island.
On dry land, the finch is named for its prolonged nasal tswe-e-e , mostly clearly heard in the greenfinch.
From 1997 - 1999, the authors conducted research with one group of seven hunters based in south Trinidad on this private land (not in the protected animal reserve).
Flights land at Selaparang Airport, on the northern outskirts of Lombok’s provincial capital, Mataram.
In return for Hubbell's confession that he covered up his and Hillary Clinton's role in a crooked Arkansas land deal, Kenneth Starr's office will recommend that Hubbell not return to prison.
In the example above, Yellowstone National Park would be reported under a category, such as "National Parks," as one of the total number of heritage assets under the auspices of the Department of the Interior; it also would be reported by the number of acres that it occupies under the stewardship land category for the Department.
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally called) and especially to Jerusalem.
(see also "Stewardship Land")
The WTC actually consisted of seven buildings, including one hotel, spread across 16 acres of land.
The Pope called on Christian Europe to launch a Crusade to defend the Holy Land, and in 1099, under the command of Godfrey de Bouillon, the Crusaders took Jerusalem.
The WP limns the pampered lives of IOC officials, who jet around the world in first-class comfort, accumulating largess in the form of medical treatment, college tuition, and slick land deals.
Of the total amount of land held by the Federal Government, about 617 million acres are considered stewardship land.
For such a small tract of land, the geology of the Lake District is actually very complex.
On the one hand, EO has pacified the land and ended a bloody civil war.
The condition26 of the stewardship land, unless it is already reported in a note to the financial statement, in which case a reference to the note will suffice.
After about 650 b.c., Greek traders arrived on the coast to compete for Spain’s rich mineral deposits and fertile land.
Land mines made it onto the world's agenda because Diana put them there, using only the cameras and good will at her disposal.
Lands in the LakeChelan National Recreation Area Should Be Returned
The land west of Ontario was written off as one big empty wilderness until Alexander Mackenzie completed the first transcontinental crossing, and Simon Fraser and David Thompson mapped out the rivers and mountains of British Columbia and the Rockies.
The Independent of London marked the anniversary of Diana's death by examining the effects of her crusade to abolish land mines.
Since then, GAO has used the increased risk of uncontrollable and often catastrophic wildfires as an example of the need for "strategic budgeting" to address issues that are not aligned with the current budget and organizational structures of the four major federal land management agencies.
The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east, taking land in what is now Turkey.
An intense realist and a fierce satirist, Simpson turned this mother-daughter journey from small-town Wisconsin in pursuit of fame and a new father in the promised land (Los Angeles) into a surreal odyssey of female frustration.
Virtually all stewardship land is useable for its purposes at September 30, 1994.
The Old Town occupies a strategic position on a nub of land jutting out from the long flat coastline.
Some years elapsed before the British decided to establish a penal settlement in the land which Cook, when he took possession of it in 1770, primarily to forestall the French, named New South Wales.
For example, geometry reveals by its very etymology (geometry) its origin in the needs to survey the lands and waters of Earth.
In 1834 slavery was abolished and John Rolle freed his slaves and deeded the Rolle land on to them “in commonage” at his death.
Commercial passengers frequently find themselves trapped in holding patterns over the nation's biggest and busiest airports as corporate turboprops carrying a few people land.
"Acquired for or in connection with" is defined as including land acquired with the intent to construct general PP&E and land acquired in combination with general PP&E, including not only land used as the foundation, but also adjacent land considered to be the general PP&E's common grounds.
Macau’s population is estimated at around 450,000, an appallingly high figure for such a small area; recent land reclamation has eased the situation to some extent.
(In a land where anyone can become president, anyone who doesn't become president is a failure.)
Two Federal agencies are responsible for maintaining virtually all stewardship land held by the Federal Government: the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture.
The road across the Bukit peninsula climbs past limestone quarries to a height of 200 m (660 ft) on its way to the western tip of land and Pura Luhur Uluwatu.
Land data are included in a separate section of this information entitled "Stewardship Land."
The Palestinian Arabs are irritated by Israeli land seizures.
Was Bank Street named after someone named Bank, because it was near the bank of a river (which has now been moved three blocks away because the land was filled in), because the town bank was once on it, or because it was where they used to bank fires?
GAO testified on the need for the four land management agencies to act quickly to develop a framework to spend funds effectively and to account accurately for what they accomplish with the funds.
Prithvi Narayan Shah, “The Great,” was born in 1723, in the ninth generation of a line of Hindu princes of Gorkha, a hill town whose lands adjoined those of Kathmandu to the east.
The prevailing winds reverse in late spring, blowing the haze north over the land, where its particles combine with monsoon rains and fall to the earth, dissipating the cloud.
S7P37-348 Stewardship Land ...
On 15 May 1905, the railroad held a land sale — a momentous step in Las Vegas history.
By 1803 the unoccupied land is so designated and before 1820 the settled districts or settled lands are so identified.
Restore and maintain the health of the land: Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by conducting assessments and completing land use plan evaluations; restore at-risk resources and maintain functioning systems, particularly riparian areas and watersheds; incorporate management land health standards into decisions and plans; implement the National Fire Plan; and emphasize resource protection by assuring that work commitments for monitoring and inspection are met, appropriate enforcement actions are taken, and results are recorded.
First settler William Blackstone sold the 48-acre (19-hectare) parcel of land to Boston residents in 1634.
And into this unknown land, this strangely melodious language, with its roots dating back to the time when the world was young, I set forth, with my paper napkin and my pocket dictionary compiled in 1890.
In patients with breast cancer-induced bone metastases, the urinary excretion of the newly synthesised α LCTX form was more increased than the age-modified forms β Land α D. Compared with NC- patients, the HC+ patients had a 3.4-fold elevation in α LCTX and the NC+ patients had 2.2-fold higher levels of α LCTX ( P < 0.01).
The tribes that were ultimately to settle in the land arrived in 896.
The Guardian continued to argue for a land war "to capture Kosovo and turn it into an international protectorate."
Land that is not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E is considered stewardship land.
If he raises taxes to support "defense" programs that fail to justify their costs, once again the price of land will fall.
8 The Board is including only surface land as supplementary stewardship information because the issues associated with other than surface land, i.e., the natural resources on and under that land, are complex.
Instead they created a second city upriver — now the Garden District — using the plentiful land that once constituted sugar plantations.
If we use the same standard for both, Hillary was a great success (more people talked about health care than are talking about land mines) and, at best, the jury is still out on Diana (though I imagine land mines will go on killing people for decades to come).
staffing land border crossings 24/7 and equipping them with video cameras, physical barriers, and means to detect weapons of mass destruction (WMD); and
It was they who made the first and hardiest effort to hew a modern living out of this hard land.
Paul Tucker, guest curator of that show and the current one, made a convincing argument that Monet was celebrating the great motifs of the French nation: her land, her agriculture, her religion, and her architecture.
Land and land rights24 owned by the Federal Government and acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E shall be accounted for and reported as general PP&E.
In this agricultural land, bulls and horses can be seen grazing all over the Ribatejo.
Any costs to prepare stewardship land for its intended use (for example, razing a building) shall be expensed as a part of the cost of stewardship land.
Clothes in historical movies can show the really distant past as a friendly foreign land, perhaps even a lot like the here and now.
Students leaving law schools earn annual salaries as low as $25,000 working for government public-service organizations, while those who land jobs with top-ranked law firms make $80,000 a year or more.
Some scholars now postulate that Ramses II was the Egyptian Pharoah of biblical fame who let the Jews leave his land for Israel.
Others argue that it was a mistake for the Jewish National Fund to prohibit non-Jewish laborers from the newly purchased lands.
STEWARDSHIP LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
When there wasn’t enough housing on the land, they looked at the empty canals and decided that houseboats would help.
It's your land, but it's my land too.
Land that is not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E is considered stewardship land.
Yet, despite all the displacement and suffering, the settlers of this land continue to be friendly and welcoming.
The major uses of stewardship land are for forests, wildlife, grazing, parks, recreation, and historic sites.
And although these papers and the LAT all communicate the same basic facts about yesterday's events--that Arafat responded to Albright's demands by promising full cooperation in the fight against anti-Israeli terrorism and that Netanyahu was very cool toward her entreaties to him to cease land confiscations, home demolitions, settlement building, confiscation of IDs and the embargoing of tax revenues belonging to the Palestinian authority--their headlines differ in what they emphasize.
In February in the entertainment business, the land lies fallow.
The Jewish National Fund was founded in 1904 for the purpose of buying up land from Arabs.
Sutton quotes liberally from the "flood" of domestic conduct books of the period, including some rhymed couplets from the wildly popular manual of Jacob Cats, such as (in my translation): "A man obeys the law of the land; a woman obeys the will of her man."
Rutland, the historic county (of which Oakham, above, was the county town), does not mean root land or red land or even rutted land but Rōta's land, from a personal name.
Movie -- Cop Land ;
One book had “a caliginous haze,” “eyot of firm land,” and “cetaceous eye.”
The business of allocating land within the limits of location required land agents , a Land Board, Land Commissioner, land fund, land orders, and led (as early as 1809) to land-jobbing and speculation by land-jobbers and land-sharks.
[rote means `land conveyance' and may comes from mail.
All this time, the land for the library has sat undisturbed, covered with tall weeds and empty buildings, its intended purpose marked only by a banner that has grown progressively more tattered.
The massacre at Columbine High School prompted op-ed writers across the land to diagnose a shocking "lack of community" as the cause of the madness.
Discarding the biblical narrative, minimalists reinterpret the flight from Egypt into Israel as a variety of indigenous peasant revolt in which fed-up Canaanite farmers wrested their land from feudal lords.
Inventing a holy land,who would have settled for theseneutral hills bare except for scrub and sage,a sky unclouded as impenetrable,now and then the timeless Bedouin tent--which would explain, along that ridge,a straggling flock of goatswith stretched-out, walking shadows?
However, the camera scans the crowd until it lands on Zmuda, who's watching the spectacle along with everyone else.
Oakham (Leicestershire) is not named for its oaks but means Occa's homestead or Occa's riverside land, depending whether the second half of the name represents Old English hām or hamm .
While the West had good reasons to be considerate toward Russia (by delaying preparations for a land invasion and seeking a solution to the crisis within the unusual context of the G-8, only because Russia was a part of it), it also has the right to expect Russia "to play the game," Le Monde said.
Now, Hollywood is feting the Land of the Snows with the "Year of Tibet in Movies": Two panegyrics will open in theaters by year's end, and a third is in the works.
George W., Land Reformer
The rancher says it's his land, not the government-protected wolf's.
Rutland, the historic county (of which Oakham, above, was the county town), does not mean root land or red land or even rutted land but Rōta's land, from a personal name.
A few weeks later he capitalized the new corporation (which included other steel mills, railroads, mines, steamships, and ore lands) at $1.
There will always be threats to democracy and freedom from people who want more power, land, etc., and who are willing to use force to achieve their goals.
But Java programs are still considerably slower than those written for a particular operating system, just as amphibious creatures are not as good on land as mammals or as good in water as fish.
whereexactly do your troubles land?)
Furthermore, the traditional response to the observation is not in favor of "greens, social critics, and other worrywarts who fret over issues such as population growth," but rather supports the capitalist argument that land tends to be used more efficiently under private ownership, in that the owner is interested in supporting the long-term value of the property.
Correctly, an acre is a measure of 4840 square yards of land, whereas Old English aecer was the field—a piece of land cleared for ploughing or grazing.
It has also been used to repeal requirements that would cause family strife--for example, the provision that inherited land can only be used by one side of the family.
The point is this: There are plenty of places to dump $100 on a pair of awfully cute baby overalls that will be worn exactly three times, but $100 baby overalls, like subzero freezers and Land Rovers, are a sign that you have too much money.
Abingdon means Æbba's hill; Boston means Bōtwulf's stone; Conventry means Cofa's tree; Leighton Buzzard is named for the Busard family, who owned land here in the 13th century; Lichfield means open land near Letocetum, the latter name itself meaning gray wood; Maidstone probably means stone of the maidens (i.e., where the girls gathered); Morpeth, like it or not, means murder path; Redruth, a Cornish name, means red ford; Southend arose at the southern end of Prittlewell parish; Westminster is west of the City of London.
.. this version of the Bible was used in Mediterranean lands during the time of Christ and the early Church.”
Tribes have, on occasion, opted for a blurring of boundaries (asking that state cops patrol reservation land, for example).
From the free land doled out to the original settlers through various subsidies like bounties and timber giveaways to the big bucks of Forest Service deficit-timber sales, Forks has supped mightily at the public trough.
In "The Jewbird," a melancholy black bird named Schwartz lands on the balcony of a New York family and insists on being taken care of--a sad nuisance of a talking bird, fleeing God knows what tragedies (the bird says, "Gevalt , a pogrom!"
They are in the hills of the altiplano, caring for their land and their animals and their families.
The road leading to Laurel Heights (where the editorial offices of VERBATIM are situated and which is, believe it or not, somewhat elevated from the surrounding land, a laurel or two can actually be found there, too) is named Boggy Hole Road, an apt name till a year ago or so, when the town of Old Lyme rebuilt it, widened it, paved it, and provided it with drainage; it is now in such good condition that I have suggested that the name be changed to Boggy Hole Boulevard, an idea that has not found much favor at the town hall.
His expository aside was adopted as the law of the land by the Supreme Court in 1997.
will have taken on a grim new tone for us all, becoming not an anthem of celebration and joy but a somber dirge of melancholy and despair across the land.
What would you call a low, narrow strip of land, for instance, a flat stretch running between a hillside and a brook?
The Daily Telegraph , the Times , the Guardian , and the Independent , which all spent the war urging a land invasion of Kosovo, were disconcerted by the fact that a peace settlement has apparently been achieved without one.
But if you care more about faraway people in faraway lands only because their welfare may affect yours, does that really count as moral improvement?
The general trend dates back at least to the invention of gunpowder: As technology advances, the growing power, compactness, and accessibility of lethal technologies mean that more people in more lands have the option of committing atrocities of greater and greater severity.
Voters elect the Texas attorney general, comptroller, general land commissioner, and state treasurer.
Early on, he refers to the American West before European settlers arrived as "empty land."
Location is more difficult, because its sense history in American English is complex; but in the Australian usage of the 1788-1838 period it meant either an allocation or grant of land or the act of establishing a settler in a place, in which case it was synonymous with settlement, as in the country will shortly be thrown open to general location.
The state's growing eco-tourism industry harbors many "enviros" who regard the fragile bounty of their land with a quiet pride that has less to do with ownership than with stewardship.
The business of allocating land within the limits of location required land agents , a Land Board, Land Commissioner, land fund, land orders, and led (as early as 1809) to land-jobbing and speculation by land-jobbers and land-sharks.
But the only words which imply some sort of relationship, either of location or utilization, between the Aborigines and the land are hunting ground (it being observed in 1830 that the Natives are as tenacious of their hunting grounds as settlers are of their farms), the verb to fire , used with reference to the Aboriginal practice of setting fire to a tract of vegetation either to trap animals or to maintain grassland, and run and station.
Even so, it added, "The resurrection of an ancient people in its own land, following the destruction of a third of its number in the Holocaust, is unique in history and represents ample cause for celebration."
Larger and more lavish stadiums translate into greater land and construction costs.
Soldiers, sailors, and traders brought home idioms from distant lands.
When Alexander went on to conquer lands as far to the east as India, the Aegean became a crossroads for the long trading routes.
The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east, taking land in what is now Turkey.
According to biblical tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his hands.
West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the coastal areas.
For in Paris they told the elf Our rough North land was the Land of Lays,
The high honor bestowed upon me is also a recognition of the Yiddish language—a language of exile, without a land, without frontiers, not supported by any government, a language which possesses no words for weapons, ammunition, military exercises, war tactics.
Warlords control much of the country beyond Kabul, and the land is awash in weapons.
Land in which we are to flourish as a people.
During the 1930s, Palestinian responses turned violent . In 1934 Jerusalem's mufti, the spiritual leader of the city's Muslims, decreed that believers were duty bound to murder other Muslims who sold land to Jews.
Spallanzani closed his 1768 monograph on regeneration, An Essay on Animal Reproductions , with a series of questions— which, except for the antiquated language, could be asked by citizens of the twenty-first century: But if the abovementioned animals, either aquatic or amphibious, recover their legs, even when kept on dry ground, how comes it to pass, that other land animals, at least such as are commonly accounted perfect, and are better known to us, are not endued with the same power?
The NY Times Marc Lacey tells viewers, over pictures of tall young African men with thin spears, "In scenes reminiscent of Zimbabwe's land seizures, angry Masai tribesmen have begun marching onto sprawling ranches held by white settlers in Kenya's lush Rift Valley and claiming the tracts as their own."
Dell was not, however, the most tired CEO in the land that evening.
The focus of the Laboratory's research program is on methods for the prevention and control of pollution to air, land, water, and subsurface resources, protection of water quality in public water systems; remediation of contaminated sites and groundwater; and prevention and control of indoor air pollution.
Tourists also frequently visit Masai villages that highlight their age-old way of life, in which all land is considered communal and cows are the measure of wealth-very ethnic," Karen concludes.
The boundary between water and land, so clear in the Italian sketches, is increasingly blurred in the great "souvenirs" of the 1850s, imaginary landscapes in which lakes, reflections, and mist-enveloped trees all meld together.
Moussaoui stood out because, with little knowledge of flying, he wanted to learn how to "take off and land" a Boeing 747.
God said this is our land.
There are the like in other lands, But here they call them grockles And feed them on the summer sands Ice-cream and rock and cockles.
Federal mission PP&E excludes land whether the land is general PP&E land or stewardship land.
For example, Lands’ Ends became an early leader in adopting certain lean retailing elements into its catalog operations and has aggressively entered Internet retailing.
The deal pushed the Masai far from their traditional turf in the Rift Valley, where a railway was being built, into reservations on far less desirable land.
It registers a process of improvement, improve being an originally American usage, Australian from the 1830s, referring to the bringing of land into agricultural or pastoral use, and including clearing, the provision of fences, buildings, etc., with the intention of increasing the land's productivity.
Here and elsewhere, the rich, flat land produces the ingredients for a formidable fruit salad: oranges and grapefruit, chestnuts and persimmons, plus exotic tropical delicacies all but unknown outside Asia.
It is a leading cause of nosocomial pneumonia and surgical site and bloodstream infections [ 9 ] ; however, the EPA considered it to be a low risk to public health with land applied sewage sludges [ 13 ] .
(“Kansas is a place for people who like subtlety,” my friend Wes Jackson once told a group of us visiting his Land Institute in Kansas in January.
From the distant land of Wabun,
Another feature of chimp land is that monogamy has flown out the window.
In summer, fishermen land their catches in the bay and sell them from small stalls set on the flat rocks surrounding the beach.
Two thousand years ago the Roman senator Cicero noted the creation of barren desert-like land in North Africa after the forests were felled for their timber, providing the earliest record of an ecosystem ‘service’ provided by forests—the stabilisation of soils.
He describes the life of the Mexican vaqueros, how their lives were spent working on large ranches like the Tejon Ranch and the Kern County Land Co.
In the future, we forsee a huge peasant rebellion, caused by widespread dispossession of land tilled by residents and sparked by a new reformation of religion.
Like Saul Steinberg's famous map of the United States from the New Yorker's point of view, these maps relegate the rest of the world to the truncated periphery, with such speculative identifications as the "Land of Dwarves" and the "Land of Women."
The gunning placements held “disappearing” guns, which could not be seen from land or sea.
Restore and maintain the health of the land: Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by conducting assessments and completing land use plan evaluations; restore at-risk resources and maintain functioning systems, particularly riparian areas and watersheds; incorporate management land health standards into decisions and plans; implement the National Fire Plan; and emphasize resource protection by assuring that work commitments for monitoring and inspection are met, appropriate enforcement actions are taken, and results are recorded.
claims this land as its own gift from God and I wish those who arc black, white or brown at this meeting to know this.
Fortunately these linguistic snares land us in trouble only for a brief moment, ignominious as that moment may occasionally be.
Much of the land has been leased back to farmers, and visitors can enjoy the wonderful beaches, although you’ll need some form of photo ID to gain access to them.
, number of parks or acres of land) rather than in terms of historical cost.
She depicts the arrival of the Hispano pioneers on the llano (plains) of western New Mexico in the 1830s, and also that of the Anglos in the 1880s, the loss of land, the fencing-in of the plains, and the end of the era with the death of her father.
In this case, however, since you are an agent of international petroleum prospectors, you do not deserve much gentleness in this our desert land."
As Lamar stares, slack-jawed, at the display case, the Butter Cow Lady herself is inside of it, applying more Land O'Lakes to the left shoulder of an apostle who might be Judas.
This is a land where different and sometimes conflicting traditions continue to matter despite heavy odds.
Some respondents were concerned that there would be double counting if, as proposed by the standards, some stewardship items would be reported in two separate categories; for example, Yellowstone National Park would be reported as a heritage asset and as stewardship land.
We want our cattle to get fat on our land so that our children grow up in prosperity; we do not want that fat removed to feed others.
I hold discussions with myself on politics, love, taste or philosophy, and let my thoughts wander in complete abandon, leaving them free to follow the first wise or foolish idea that comes along, like those young rakes we see in the Repressed Sexuality Land who run after a giddy-looking little piece with a laughing face, sparkling eye and tip-tilted nose, only to leave him for another, accosting them all, but sticking to none.
"Where farmers and their families fall sick, they cultivate less land and shift to less labour-intensive and less nutritious crops, agricultural productivity decreases and hunger and malnutrition are on the rise.
At first we noticed that abundance (not necessarily personal abundance, although the post-WWII/Cold War takeoff of the US economy afforded better living for much higher proportions of the US population) was not satisfying to us, although it seemed to be sufficient for our parents who had suffered serious deprivation during the Depression and then horrifying war (our fathers ignorant men thrown together in foreign lands to face death with only each other's bodies for support--while longing for the comfort of love and habit sent by the women who became our mothers in letters to unknowable islands and bivouacs).
if the structure is to be used in operations (for example, as general PP&E) but 1) the value of the structure is insignificant, or 2) its acquisition is merely a byproduct of the acquisition of the land, the cost in its entirety shall be treated as an acquisition of stewardship land; or
The Crusaders set up their own kingdom in Jerusalem and began another Crusade to gain more of the Holy Land.
Woody Guthrie, who wrote "This Land Is Your Land," was a Communist.
In addition, the Bureau of Land Management and Veterans Benefits Administration provide senior executives with objective data through real-time data systems so that executives can track their individual progress against organizational goals.
Under the agreement, Israelis will cede an additional 13 percent of West Bank land to the Palestinians and will release 750 Palestinian prisoners.
The analysis discusses the beneficial effects and the adverse effects of each alternative and concludes that the second alternative offered the greatest environmental return for the federal dollars spent, provided program managers and participants the greatest flexibility in program administration, gave effective conservation coverage across the land, and involved a large number of participants.
In 1904, the narrow, double-decker trams ran along the waterfront, but land reclamation has placed them far inland.
The problem was that hangings were popular and sometimes drew huge, raucous, picnicking crowds, an image that didn't quite mesh with the orange-blossom gentility the land barons were trying to create.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624 . . . . . . . . . . . . S8P66 Stewardship Land.
b) bhumidar `landowner having full title,' from Hindi bhumi `earth, land' and Persian dar `holder';
Reporting at the entity level for stewardship land shall be more specific than at the governmentwide level.
Not expecting a land attack, Commonwealth troops on the peninsula were ill-prepared.
The area of an acre was standardized by Edward I as being land 40 rods long by 4 rods wide.
CHAPTER 4: STEWARDSHIP LAND
Israel is many things to many people: a land of hope, wonder, faith, salvation, contradiction, and sometimes despair.
Dole, the picture says again, is from the heartland, the land of plain virtue and truth-telling.
Excluded from the definition of land for reporting purposes here are materials beneath the surface (that is, depletable resources such as mineral deposits and petroleum), the space above the surface (that is, renewable resources such as timber), and the outer-continental shelf resources.
The paths around Derwent Water and Buttermere are particularly relaxing: They often take in areas of forest, such as at Grizedale, or grassland and park land, as at Mirehouse or Lingholm.
Squatter, not in the American and earliest Australian sense of one who illegally occupies land but in the main Australian sense of one who has title to a tract of grazing land, is recorded in 1837 and is essentially a word of the 1840s; but in the earlier period both runs and stations were being established for the grazing of sheep and cattle.
This entails a complex effort to determine which parts of developed and undeveloped lands are most necessary to such processes, including rivers, sand movement corridors, gradients from uplands to coastal lowlands, and major wilderness areas.
The famous tenements (or “lands”) began to be built.
The Libyan leader's new Escape to Hell and Other Stories rants at a fictional land called "Amelica" in prose that is "turgid."
NOAA also measured how accurately it could predict the range where hurricanes would reach land, given a 24-hour lead time.
The overwhelming majority of chat-room participants seem to accept the premise of "Dark Alliance," and to spend their time arguing over the connections to other perceived conspiracies like the JFK assassination or that more recent fave, Arkansas land dealings.
Stewardship PP&E includes heritage assets, Federal mission PP&E, and stewardship land.
The land was infertile, just a swampy plain, the river small and sluggish.
In an editorial, Ha'aretz urged Barak to help to create a new atmosphere of trust by unilaterally dismantling the outposts illegally established by Israelis on hilltops outside existing West Bank settlements in "a wild, catch-as-catch-can land grab" during the run-up to the Wye agreement.
"Land rights" are interests and privileges held by the entity in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, mineral rights, and other like interests in land.
The story says scores of businesses and residents contributed materials, services, money and land for the new home.
Housing, the extent of land holdings, and material possessions owned by the respondents were examined in these field visits.
Waves of Siberian hunters had crossed a land bridge over the Bering Strait in pursuit of mammoth and bison.
They publicly supported Arab complaints that Jews were driving Arabs off the land.
• GPRA- (1) Restore and maintain the health of the land by conducting assessments and completing land use plan actions as planned, (2) serve current and future publics by ensuring the National Environmental Policy Act and environmental analyses are sufficient to sustain program decisions implementing the President's Energy Plan while assuring that the National Environmental Policy Act and planning guidelines are met, and (3) implementing BLM's wild horse and burro national strategy.
West of Ponce, off Route 2. This extremely arid and rocky area of land supports a large “dry tropical forest.”
Arabs, who outnumbered Jews by more than 2-to-1, revolted against Jewish land acquisition and British promises of Jewish nationhood.
BLM's senior executives have relied on resource advisory councils (RAC) consisting of local residents with diverse interests as a way to involve customers, identify issues, and reach a reasonable degree of consensus regarding BLM's land management programs.
A magnificent example of Gothic military architecture, the castle has commanded the sea and land approaches to the city since its construction in the early 14th century by order of King Jaume II.
Meanwhile, population pressure pushed desperate peasants into cultivating ever more marginal land or seeking a livelihood in any way possible--such as homesteading on a mountain of garbage.
Where parcels of stewardship land have more than one use, the predominant use of the land shall be considered the major use.
Guadeloupeans, who don’t always own land, like to move around.
The value of land associated with the facilities included among Federal mission PP&E is not included in the display that follows.
The land was transformed by hundreds of small wells sunk to extract the precious liquid.
His vituperation for Woodrow Wilson extends beyond the familiar argument that Wilson's arrogance sabotaged his efforts to win Senate approval for joining the League of Nations; Buchanan also faults Wilson for impugning the patriotism of so-called "hyphenates"--immigrants who wanted American policy to favor their native lands.
Standards related to heritage assets and stewardship land call for reporting in terms of physical units (e.g.
Flat land is at such a premium in Funchal that even the likes of Reid’s and Hotel Savoy can only afford two tennis courts each.
But even Alfred Marshall--the Victorian economist who invented supply and demand as we know it--was well aware that while diminishing returns are a good assumption for agriculture (The more wheat you try to grow, the worse the land on which the marginal bushel is grown), elsewhere in the economy it is quite possible to have increasing returns, in which the more you produce, the easier it gets.
Changes in the market value of existing tangible and financial assets, such as land and stocks, reflect expectations about the productive potential of the underlying capital, but fluctuations in asset values may not represent real, permanent changes in the nation's productive capacity.
Louis IX of France, the ideal Christian king for the justice he handed down to his subjects and for the Crusades he led to the Holy Land, was sainted after his death in Tunis in 1270.
In 1773 the road commissioners for the Town of Harrison, N.Y., laid out a road, “along said Merrits land to a Black Oak Stadel marked with a Slipe and three hacks with an axe.”
S6P26 Stewardship Land ...
Just outside Provincetown, at Province Lands, take the opportunity to climb on to the roof for a panoramic view of the dunes, tenuously anchored by pitch pines and oaks.
The Law impressed a special meaning on many Anglo-Saxon words-- manslaughter, sheriff, theft, hearsay, bench (judge's), strike (motion to), landlord, freehold (in land), and herein --which they retain to this day.
According to the Natural Resources Conservation Service, this single, voluntary program will provide flexible technical, financial, and educational assistance to farmers and ranchers who face serious threats to soil, water, and related natural resources on agricultural and other lands, including grazing lands, wetlands, forest lands, and wildlife habitats.
The imposed treaty in 1772 robbed Poland of nearly a third of its lands.
Meanwhile, though, who would cover politics while Jacob dwelt in the land of the artsy-fartsies?
The cost or value of stewardship land is often not determinable.
Safaris and desert adventures: Over 90% of Egypt’s land is desert, making it only a matter of time before it became a tourist resource.
This is, in fact, the most important unresolved issue in all of formal logic, because of greatly inflated land values and a rapidly increasing angel population, both of which place dancing space at a premium.
executing the National Fire Plan, (4) developing opportunities for alternative sources of energy in land use planning and program implementation, (5) completing new or revised land use plans as proposed in congressional justifications, and (6) achieving targets for abandoned mine lands/herd management areas consistent with the revised wild horse and burro strategy and BLM's annual performance plan.
The achievement of having already destroyed some 60,000 land mines out of an estimated 220,000 planted in various areas of the country has been commended by the U.N.
Stewardship PP&E would include stewardship land (that is, land not acquired for or in connection with general property, plant, and equipment); heritage assets (for example, Federal monuments and memorials and historically or culturally significant property); and Federal mission property, plant, and equipment (for example, space exploration and military weapons systems).
Ramses II did not build it from stone but had it hewn into the cliffs of the Nile valley at a spot that stands only 7 km (4 miles) from the Sudan border, in the ancient land of Nubia.
The business of allocating land within the limits of location required land agents , a Land Board, Land Commissioner, land fund, land orders, and led (as early as 1809) to land-jobbing and speculation by land-jobbers and land-sharks.
GENERAL PP&E LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
La Gomera actually has about 300 hectares (741.3 acres) of vineyards mostly cultivated on uneven land with steep slopes and small terraces.
broad and narrow oxgang the amount of land that could be cultivated by an ox, between eight and ten acres
Ultrastructural differences at the equatorial/bow region were also observed between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3Band 3G) and wild type lenses (Figure 3Land 3Q).
Women have traditionally formed the majority of the congregation, praying for the protection of their fathers, husbands, and sons while they were away at sea in merchant fleets, diving for sponges, or working in lands far away.
Federal guidelines advise wearing protective gear and exercising good personal hygiene when handling Class B biosolids or exposed to the aerosols [ 6 14 ] . The nature and timing of symptoms reported by residents suggest that steps should also be taken to protect the public from exposure to airborne contaminants from land application areas.
So many inter-religious alliances reigned, and so pervasive was the intermingling of Moors and Christians, that it was hard to tell who was on which side and for which piece of land they were fighting.
Therefore, stewardship land is reported in terms of physical units rather than cost, fair value, or other monetary values.
The promised land, as it turned out, looks like Graceland.
The Federal Government holds approximately 650 million acres of land.
So they set about clearing the land for agriculture, setting fire to massive tracts of forest.
After years of addiction and attempts at recovery, the nearly 16-year-old California band has entered dinosaur land.
Any costs to prepare stewardship land for its intended use (for example, razing a building) shall be expensed as a part of the cost of stewardship land.
Astride the neck of land between the Bay of Pollença and the even more expansive Bay of Alcúdia stands the ancient walled town of Alcúdia, first inhabited by the Phoenicians in the eighth century b.c.
When ratios between the newly synthesised α Lform and the age-modified forms (β Land α D) were calculated, only minor and nonsignificant differences were observed between premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
According to biblical tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his hands.
Last week, a 70-year-old Palestinian real-estate dealer was murdered after he violated a new edict by the Palestinian Authority making the sale of Arab-owned land to Jews a capital crime.
Our model is conceptually similar to the “gravity” models that have been used to predict retail travel [18], plan land use [19], and determine accessibility of primary care [20].
On land, you can fill your day with tennis and golf along with long walks and beach activities.
Experts estimate that about two thirds of the American people, living on about 80 per cent of the land area speak this dialect—or with this accent, if one prefers that term.
Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by assuring that assessments and land use plans are completed.
There was some half-hearted fighting between northerners and southerners for control of the property and lands left by the Spanish missionaries, half of which was meant to be returned to the Native Americans but never was.
As if that weren't enough, the LAT reports that Burger Kings across the land are running out of Pokemon toys to go with kiddie meals.
When it was over, Hughes owned six casinos, an airport, and an airline, along with numerous plots of land stretching from the Strip to the mountains.
The business of allocating land within the limits of location required land agents , a Land Board, Land Commissioner, land fund, land orders, and led (as early as 1809) to land-jobbing and speculation by land-jobbers and land-sharks.
STEWARDSHIP LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
Chinese boundaries were expanded, land reform was instituted, and towns were built.
One reason for this diversity is the custom of English-speaking explorers and pioneers in a new land to adopt the native name for unfamiliar plants, animals, and things.
It has been estimated that were this land developed it would be worth around $270 million to the Kenyan people every year.
At one point the land value of the Imperial Palace in Tokyo was thought to be worth more than the entire real-estate value of Canada.
The controversy over Palestinian land sales to Jews escalated.
County records indicated that biosolids-related complaints for individual patients described in this study were concurrent with land application of Class B biosolids.
The reforms he got the ruler to accept — organizing revenue collection, dismantling slavery, regulating land — were precisely the changes Birch had sought but for which his arrogant approach got him murdered.
The business of allocating land within the limits of location required land agents , a Land Board, Land Commissioner, land fund, land orders, and led (as early as 1809) to land-jobbing and speculation by land-jobbers and land-sharks.
The U. S. Environmental Protection Agency is charged by Congress with protecting the Nation's land, air, and water resources.
However, the Persians still held a grudge and when Darius’ son, Xerxes, re-invaded Greece by land and sea in far greater strength ten years later, the Greeks’ defeat seemed inevitable.
Africa's most populous nation has everything it needs: arable land, quality universities, and oil.
Small plots of land, divided by heath-tree fencing (to protect crops from the salt-laden wind) climb the hills overlooking the sea.
As time passes, land slowly forms on the water's surface.
In some cases, land may be acquired along with existing structures.
Food riots broke out in Lombardy, revolts in Tuscany, and southern peasants demanded a share of common land.
City officials are incredibly sensitive to the charge that they are buying Clinton land with money that should go to feeding the giraffes.
Using 2000 United States (US) Census figures and geographic land area (in square miles), the population density of each zip code area in Western New York was determined (population/square mile).
Although it accounts for approximately one third of the country’s land area, these vast, sun-baked plains are sparsely populated.
And the Los Angeles Times goes with Israel's rejection of an American proposal for a transfer of more West Bank land to the Palestinians.
With funding from the Lawyers Trust Fund of Illinois, the Technology Working Group and representatives from CARPLS (the Chicago-based hotline and referral services), Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, Prairie State Legal Services and Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation have formed a "Best Practices" group.
The cemetery dates back to 1693, when French Protestants, fleeing persecution in their native land, settled in Dublin, bringing with them their architectural and weaving skills, which greatly enriched their adopted city.
The Arab National Fund, created in 1931 by wealthy Arab families to purchase land for displaced peasants, was ineffective.
The most relevant information about stewardship land is its existence, condition, and use.
To keep the support of the nobles’ armies, the kings had to give the nobles more and more land.
To break impasse over ancestral land motions on crisis must remain Serbian
STEWARDSHIP LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
Here on the night of 18 April, 1775, sexton Robert Newman climbed the tower and hung the two lanterns (“one, if by land, and two, if by sea”) warning the colonists in Concord of British troop movements.
Examples of stewardship land include land used as forests and parks, and land used for wildlife and grazing.
The First Crusade was organized to help the Byzantines recapture the Holy Land from the “infidel” Muslims, and resulted in victory for the Crusaders.
These eight "anti-environment" Senate votes were: a vote against de-funding the Synfuels Corp.; a vote in favor of constructing a highway along the boundary of a wilderness park in Hawaii; a vote against creating a new victim's compensation program under the Superfund program; a vote to cut funding for the Environmental Protection Agency; two highway bill votes; a vote against banning new billboard construction along federally subsidized highways; and a vote against a moratorium on issuing federal patents for hard-rock mining on public lands out west.
3. Usama Bin Ladin, "Declaration of War Against the Americans Occupying the Land of the Two Holy Places," Aug. 23, 1996 (trans.
The British extended their control over the peninsula by putting together the whole panoply of colonial administration — civil service, public works, judiciary force, police force, post office, education, and land regulation — with teams of British administrators, teachers, engineers, and doctors to go with it.
The answer, methinks, is that the presidency attracts losers because it's not even in the top 500 highest offices of the land.
Stewardship land shall be reported in terms of physical units rather than cost, fair value, or other monetary values.
That was the lot of serfs, who were nearly owned by their lords and whose land was owned by their lords.
Land that is acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E are reported on the balance sheet.
Pilgrim interest in the Holy Land (as it was first called at this time) began on a massive scale that has continued to this day.
The high honor bestowed upon me is also a recognition of the Yiddish language—a language of exile, without a land, without frontiers, not supported by any government, a language which possesses no words for weapons, ammunition, military exercises, war tactics.
6, Accounting for Property, Plant, and Equipment, has divided property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) into two basic categories: general PP&E and stewardship PP&E (which consists of federal mission PP&E, heritage assets, and stewardship land).
They founded many trading settlements in the “remote” or “hidden land” they named Span or Spania.
Cop Land shares its leading man's slow-wittedness, but also his likability.
The Romanization of Gaul sent the most energetic warriors to defend the outposts of the empire while their families settled down to work the land or build towns such as Lyon, Orange, Arles, and Nîmes, and the first great highways between them.
But there is much else of interest in this vast land to make the journey truly enjoyable.
Nevertheless, the Holy Land is not the ideal place for a family holiday.
Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint silhouette of land.
Directly opposite is the Bible Lands Museum.
All of these efforts are aimed at balancing the needs of the land, the farmers, and the visitors, ensuring that the Lake District remains a beautiful, natural place with many secrets to be discovered.
This land is a constant challenge to mind and body, a glorious shock to the system.
In the 1930s, persecution of European Jews forced even greater numbers to flee to the Holy Land.
The land and seascapes are impressively rugged and the spirited people a sheer delight.
While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands.
The new Jewish state of Israel founded on land so recently Islamic Palestine sent shock waves through the Arab world and Egypt found itself at the center of a bloody defeat in 1948 when it stood up against its new neighbor.
It was a controversial amount at the time — more than the US Treasury owned — but the Louisiana Purchase, as it became known, covered land from Canada to the Rockies to the Gulf of Mexico, and almost doubled the area of the United States.
The two races coexisted in the higher valleys, clearing tracts of land and establishing small villages.
Charles II granted this tentacular private joint-stock company control of all territories draining into Hudson Bay; they were named Rupert’s Land after the king’s cousin, who was also titular head of the company.
In 1940 Hungary allowed the German army to cross its territory and, as a reward, they temporarily recovered parts of its former lands from Romania and Yugoslavia.
Under the leadership of Henry the Navigator, caravels set out from the westernmost point of the Algarve, in southern Portugal, in search of foreign lands, fame, and wealth.
The first leader of the Magyars, Prince Arpád, founded a dynasty that lasted more than three centuries and introduced statehood to the new land.
It’s a melancholy sight that recalls Hungary’s claim on that part of the land north of the river, lost in the punitive 1920 Treaty of Trianon.
This allowed only those directly related to the Rolle slaves to farm or build on the inherited land.
First of the national rulers to take the title of sei-i tai-shogun (“barbarian-subduing great general”), Minamoto expanded and consolidated his power by confiscating lands from some of the defeated Taira and redistributing them to his samurai vassals.
They succeeded in having the eastern section of the Northwest Territories officially renamed Nunavut — “Our Land” — and in 1999, Nunavut became the 11th province of Canada.
Charles Stewart Parnell, an Irish member of parliament, took up the cause, and the Land Acts, which enabled hard-pressed tenants to buy their land, were passed.
Abraham, the first Jewish Patriarch, led his people here in search of “the land of milk and honey”; Jesus Christ was born, lived, ministered, and died here; and Mohammed, the founder of Islam, visited Jerusalem during his heavenly “Night Journey. ”
Crete is exporting elements of its healthy diet and the seasonal gluts that used to see farming families through the winter now end up on tables in lands far away.
Although many Scottish nobles were dedicated to the cause of independence, others either bore grudges against the ruling king or held lands in England that they feared to lose.
The new, state-of-the-art Bible Lands Museum, with its collection of beautiful ancient artifacts from neighboring countries, is next door.
Wave upon wave of small smooth hillocks known as “haystacks” cover the land, and the roads bend and weave around these forested mounds and through small villages nestled in the valleys.
Prosperity from the land finally seemed a possibility.
When the discovery of gold on the Fraser River in 1858 brought in a flood of American adventurers, Britain decided it was time to take the land over from the Hudson’s Bay Company and create the colony of British Columbia.
Here you can enjoy the Algarve of yesteryear and rolling undeveloped countryside, where people still live off the land.
A land of rolling hills and deciduous trees, tiny hamlets and green meadows, the Southeast is the most popular area of the Lake District, if not the most dramatic visually.
There was a massive dispossession of the Irish from their fertile lands in the east, and they were driven west of the Shannon; in Cromwell’s phrase they could go to “Hell or Connaught.”
Their name, says the myth, was bestowed on them when an ancestor, on his way to meet another tribe, walked through land burned by prairie fire and blackened his moccasins.
One of the oldest churches in the world, it was the only church in the Holy Land not destroyed during the Persian invasion of 614 — the invaders noticed an icon of the Magi (who were fellow Persians) and spared the structure.
In the center of the caldera are two low-lying areas of land that appeared after the 1500 b.c. eruption: Nea Kameni and Palea Kameni.
The name Longmen, which means “Dragon’s Gate,” might derive from the lie of the land here: cliffs standing like gate towers rise on either side of the River Yi.
Vast expanses of land are cultivated; orchards and lush cattle pastures produce the famous strong cider and pungent cheeses.
One of Crete’s most influential religious institutions, Toploú Monastery (Moní Toploú), is found here on a windswept hilltop, surrounded by large swathes of fertile land bequeathed to it by grateful believers.
The King encouraged the arrival of Westerners, giving land grants to some of his favorite foreigner visitors.
They are not true islands but are each connected by a narrow neck of land.
The official name of the Northwestern Territories hasn’t changed, but it is known among the Dene Nation as Denendeh which means “our land,” and as the negotiations between the native groups and the government continue, this dream moves closer to reality.
The Po valley’s economic expansion through land clearance and new irrigation works brought a rapid decline of feudalism.
To control land and sea routes to the south, the Mauryas still needed to conquer the eastern kingdom of Kalinga (modern Orissa).
Land was divided into provinces and prefectures, with power vested in a central government staffed by highly educated bureaucrats.
The island’s small beaches have managed to maintain their natural beauty, despite the throngs of visitors that land daily.
Greece moved in to administer the land, but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part of greater Greece.
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally called) and especially to Jerusalem.
Membership in the nation is now defined by birth on the land, and the fact of nationality, legally recognized as citizenship, generates the most basic right of the new legal order.
He's just whipping up poor farm laborers to riot because he won't fight the agribusiness giants that own all the land.
To contribute to its strategic goal to restore and maintain the health of the land, BLM set an expectation for senior executives to understand and plan for the condition and use of public lands.
As a government, we are committed to the rule of law and the protection of private property,'' declares Amos Kimunya, the minister for lands and housing.
A conservation plan was launched in 1998 that has drawn cooperation from tourism, mining, water use, agricultural, and land use planning groups.
These Horites are first mentioned at the time of Abraham in connection with the subjugation of the land by Chedorlaomer.
The old illegal numbers racket was vigorously battled by vice squads across the land until the states got into the business.
Although the Federal Government holds vast amounts of "proven" and "inferred" natural resources, the major reasons for addressing only surface land in this project were (1) the allotted time frame within which to complete this standard; (2) existing studies that point out the difficulties and the complexities of accurately estimating and valuing natural resources; and (3) disputes regarding the boundaries of the outer-continental shelf.
Radio Free Kenya presents a voice of protest: "We're now squatters on our own land,'' said Ratik Ole Kuyana, a Masai tour guide who narrowly escaped arrest at the protest in Nairobi on Tuesday. "
The Maoris of New Zealand were ceded 39,000 acres of land and paid $112 million by the Crown in 1995, as part of a bill personally signed by Queen Elizabeth.
For guidance relating to stewardship land that was previously recognized as assets for balance sheet reporting, see SFFAS No.
And he would have negotiated better land deals.
In the former sense it gives way to government land or to more specific terms for parcels of land like government domain, government farm, government garden, government ground, government paddock, government reserve and government run ; in the latter it comes increasingly to refer to land that is available for grant, lease, or purchase, to distinguish land which is variously described as unlocated, unoccupied or (from slightly later, in the 1840s) unsettled from land which is located or settled.
Aside from the stunning views, Santorini has many more delights to show its visitors, with 12 villages to visit set among agricultural land.
In her self-assessment for the 2001 performance appraisal cycle, she stated that she began conducting land use assessments for Gunnison Gorge and approved "pre-plans," which outline the anticipated schedule, budget, and stakeholder involvement to complete a land use plan.
The period of the Civil War witnessed legislative measures that had never been seen before in the United States—the beginning of a national banking system, the issuance of a national currency, a homestead act that distributed 160 acres to each settler, and land grants for building universities.
Mobe and Ferd first see Nairobi from a taxi, surrounded by Masai in brilliant red cloaks trying to march from a park in downtown Nairobi to the British High Commission to highlight their rejection of colonial-era agreements that stripped them of their land.
The NYT adds the detail that the plane had actually gotten over land near Halifax and then returned over water to dump more fuel.
The ancient Greeks thought of them as the Garden of Hesperides, Romans called this archipelago the Fortunate Islands, and Homer tells us that blessed ones were sent to the Elysian Fields to enjoy eternal happiness in a land where winter was unknown.
The badges and vestiges of slavery still haunt the land.
[Pictures of lush land, with mountains in the background are shown, then police officers in riot gear forcibly ousting the men,] ". . whom the government calls invaders, as well as their cattle.
The NYT land mine story reveals a major policy change: the Clinton administration told allies over the weekend that it could sign a land mine ban provided the U.S. was allowed nine more years before removing them from the Korean peninsula.
For all this, the railroad needed land.
Did I grow up in a land of sissies?
They remind us of the way God introduces himself to Moses in the Book of Exodus: “I am the God of your father . . . So I have come down to rescue [my people] from the hand of Egypt, to bring it up from that land to a land, goodly and spacious, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
We, the last remnants of the Catharists here in Frankish lands (see Chap 29), face persecution from Bernard of Clairvaux.
The film has all the commonplaces of the genre--the party that utterly trashes someone's parents' house, the voyeuristic visit to the girl's locker room, the guys betting about getting laid, and the happy comic resolution: The geek beds the prom queen, Ringwald lands the cute senior.
There’s no doubt that the mysteries of the ancient are the lure that attracts most visitors, yet there is much to be said of modern Egypt — the archaeological sites do not sit in a geographical or cultural vacuum.Twenty-first century Egypt is a land of contrasts, but some things never change.
Bryant's bill, House Bill 1122, requires all rent-to-own contracts to be recorded in the land deeds where the property is located along with any documents indicating the financial arrangement.
The sites chosen for rural camposantos were often on tierra muerta, barren land that was too poor to cultivate.
One day after dinner there I was, watching a great deal but saying little and listening to as little as I could, when I was accosted by one of the weirdest characters in this Land of ours that has not been sparing of them.
A mixed bag of Crusaders from northern Europe were recruited en route to their battles east in the Holy Land.
We are under pressure to conform to our oppressors' wishes about how we should behave, how we should govern our lands, how we should think even."
Kenya and Zimbabwe have the same problem with whites robbing us of our land.
She was born in England but never came to the island: the responsibility for working the plantation lands fell to her male relatives.
On the way from Coimbra towards Viseu (87 km/54 miles northeast), the land becomes emphatically rural.
In the theme park itself, Main Street U.S.A., recapturing the traditions of small-town America at the turn of the century, leads to four other “lands” — Frontierland, Adventureland, Fantasyland, and Discoveryland.
This began in the 1950s when Prince Alfonso von Hohenlohe bought land and built himself a luxurious home here.
She attributes part of this increase to the fact that people have been moving to Colorado in hopes of finding the promised land, as outlined in Money Magazine.
Imposing but not beautiful, it is not only the oldest church in the Holy Land, but also one of the oldest in the world.
An editorial in the Syrian state-controlled newspaper Tashrin called the Netanyahu regime a "three-year nightmare" and said Barak should "make drastic changes in Israel's positions regarding a full withdrawal from occupied Arab lands and a just and inclusive peace based on U.N. resolutions."
When he proposed sending a CIA team into northern Afghanistan to meet with Massoud in August 2000, the idea was turned down; local helicopters were not deemed airworthy, and land access was too risky.
British forces suffered constant harassment at their hands and even named a part of the island “The Land of Look Behind” in recognition of the surprise attacks they suffered.
The geometric constraints model suggests that, to the extent that there is symmetry in the continuity of land (or water) about the equator, declines in richness from the tropical peak should also be symmetrical, with any asymmetries in the latter matching those in the former.
Gowers, himself an Englishman, said that “in Scotland, its land of origin, the pronunciation is skawn , and English people who know this so pronounce it.”
Wildlife watching of large land mammals, principally deer, drew 12.
The land rises suddenly here.
But, for my two cents' worth, when I was in the U.S. Army, early 1950s (Korea, Land of the Morning Calm, sometimes referred to as Frozen Chosen), I was in a battalion personnel unit and handled daily Morning Reports from each battery.
This approach is based on the dispersion of air pollutants as winds carry them over land surfaces, irrespective of their emission rates at the source.
The new US Embassy is being built nearby, on land originally occupied by that country’s pre-war embassy, and a large stretch of ground leading towards Potsdamer Platz has been designated as the site of a memorial to the victims of the Holocaust.
In the land of gaming, not gambling, everyone is sure he's a winner.
GENERAL PP&E LAND -Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government that are acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E.
This well-presented collection usually has a special rotating program highlighting the native arts of Latin America and other lands.
Be that as it may, a later Australian visitor to English drizzle might feel nostalgic when thinking of the parched and thirsty but water-obsessed vocabulary developed in the drier areas of our sunburnt land.
Federal mission PP&E excludes land whether the land is general PP&E land or stewardship land.
Most people begin their journeys in the capital, Havana, before heading to the prized tobacco lands farther west and doubling back across the plains of sugar cane and some of the country’s finest colonial towns in central Cuba.
' Chukker `period of polo play,' dhoti `loincloth,' dinghy, ganja `cannabis used for smoking,' khidmatgar `male waiter,' khuskhus, kutcha `crude, imperfect,' myna `species of bird,' puggaree `blight turban, scarf,' raggee `finger millet,' ryotwar `system of collecting land rents or taxes,' sambar `type of deer,' and zamindari `system of land holding' each have three other acceptable spellings.
Raimondi has been evicting residents and demolishing trailers that are left behind in order to meet a city requirement that he present a clean piece of land with no environmental concerns.
Blue-and-white agapanthus cling to the top of the promontory, and pine and eucalyptus creep right to the edge, but an even greater degree of daring can be seen hundreds of feet below, where farmers have managed to salvage tiny plots of arable land, terracing them into little green postage stamps stuck onto the sides and base of the cliff.
The Cork Examiner hailed it as the achievement of "lasting peace," and the Irish Times compared John Hume, the Ulster Social Democratic Party leader who played the key role in launching the peace negotiations, to "Moses entering the Promised Land"--though, as the Irish historian and politician Conor Cruise O'Brien pointed out in an op-ed article in the Times of London on Monday, Moses never actually entered the Promised Land.
As time has passed, the young energy has moved east, taking advantage of available land, and now Isla Verde, farther along the coast, has been developed — some say overdeveloped.
Abingdon means Æbba's hill; Boston means Bōtwulf's stone; Conventry means Cofa's tree; Leighton Buzzard is named for the Busard family, who owned land here in the 13th century; Lichfield means open land near Letocetum, the latter name itself meaning gray wood; Maidstone probably means stone of the maidens (i.e., where the girls gathered); Morpeth, like it or not, means murder path; Redruth, a Cornish name, means red ford; Southend arose at the southern end of Prittlewell parish; Westminster is west of the City of London.
Land and land rights owned by the Federal Government and not acquired for or in connection with items of general PP&E will be reported as stewardship land.
They called Jamaica “Xaymaca” (“land of wood and water”).
Woody Guthrie, who wrote "This Land Is Your Land," was a Communist.
Furthermore, in developing countries, land tenure is often ambiguous, which can make investment an unattractive prospect for funding agencies—they want to be sure they know where their money is going.
This simple place of worship, on land set aside for personal reflection, is open at all hours for those who want to come and pray.
In contrast to wild type lenses (Figure 3Land 3Q), the alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3Band 3G) contained large areas devoid of cellular material, their nuclei were not limited to a well defined equatorial/bow region, and ordered radial columns of elongating fiber cells extending from the posterior capsule to the anterior epithelium were not observed.
It’s the land of good duck and goose, of fine Bordeaux wines.
Of the total amount of land held by the Federal Government, about 617 million acres are considered stewardship land.
In the 19th century, when Kashmir was the most exotic hill-station of them all, the maharaja forbade the British to buy land there, so they then hit on the brilliant alternative of building luxuriously appointed houseboats moored on the lakes near Srinagar.
"That America is not the land of universal plenty it should have become is for many libertarians, including me, the source of our deepest anger about what big government has done to this country," he writes at one point.
For example, many farmers still clear land by the ancient method of slash-and-burn, in which forest is chopped, left to dry, and then burned.
This easily defensible thumb of land is bounded on three sides by the so-called “Three Seas” — the Sea of Marmara to the south, the Bosphorus to the east, and the Golden Horn to the north.
Did the ancestors of the Indians really come from Asia over the Aleutian land bridge?
if the structure, which would be deemed a heritage asset, is significant in and of itself, the entity shall use its judgement as to whether the acquisition cost shall be treated as the cost of stewardship land, heritage asset, or both;
When Venetian aristocrats gave up the high seas for a more leisurely life on the land, they built Palladian Renaissance villas and extravagantly frescoed Baroque country houses on the banks of the Brenta Canal between Venice and Padua.
Not so fast, say the other pundits, charting the land mines in Clinton's path.
Examples of major uses of stewardship land include forests and wildlife, grazing, parks, recreation, and historic sites.
Since its founding in 1895, the National Trust has preserved nearly 100 farmhouses and the surrounding land as well as many other historic structures throughout the region.
"Continuing series of 'land for peace' deals with Sea World trivializes Middle East problems."
Stewardship PP&E would include stewardship land (that is, land not acquired for or in connection with general property, plant, and equipment); heritage assets (for example, Federal monuments and memorials and historically or culturally significant property); and Federal mission property, plant, and equipment (for example, space exploration and military weapons systems).
But perhaps the greatest legacy to travelers today who arrive at the world’s premier island beach resort is the warmth, friendliness, and sense of family that Hawaiian culture has created in the land of its rise, fall, and renewal.
' Chukker `period of polo play,' dhoti `loincloth,' dinghy, ganja `cannabis used for smoking,' khidmatgar `male waiter,' khuskhus, kutcha `crude, imperfect,' myna `species of bird,' puggaree `blight turban, scarf,' raggee `finger millet,' ryotwar `system of collecting land rents or taxes,' sambar `type of deer,' and zamindari `system of land holding' each have three other acceptable spellings.
Examples of stewardship land include land used as forests and parks, and land used for wildlife and grazing.
Visitors are conveyed around on a moving walkway that allows the King, Gentoo and Rockhopper penguins to be seen cavorting on land and in the water.
For most hyphenated Americans, a trip to the ancestral lands is enough to reinforce the point--assuming, that is, that there are ancestral lands to speak of.
• only significant structures that have an operating use (such as, a recently constructed hotel or employee housing block) shall be treated as general PP&E by identifying the cost attributable to general PP&E and segregating it from the cost of the stewardship land acquired.
The pyramids of Egypt have exerted a powerful hold on the world since explorers first began to explore this ancient land.
Coming from the no man's land of Illinois instead of North or South, Lidie represents the realist's take on slavery--in her heart she's against it, but she finds the abolitionists smug, intoxicated by their own abstract words.
"Land rights" are interests and privileges held by the entity in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, mineral rights, and other like interests in land.
There are two small squares of land that rise up out of the lake: Sonalank, Akbar’s Golden Island to the north, and Ruplank, Silver Island, to the south.
Though now in disuse, it consists of a trench three feet deep, on sloping land, with a retaining wall on the uphill side.
Restore and maintain the health of the land: Understand and plan for the condition and use of the public lands by conducting assessments and completing land use plan evaluations; restore at-risk resources and maintain functioning systems, particularly riparian areas and watersheds; incorporate management land health standards into decisions and plans; implement the National Fire Plan; and emphasize resource protection by assuring that work commitments for monitoring and inspection are met, appropriate enforcement actions are taken, and results are recorded.
The first Anglican place of worship in Boston, it stands on land taken by Governor Andros from the burial ground next door: The Puritans refused to sell any land that would be used to benefit a denomination that had persecuted them.
Until about 1150, Old English time was reckoned by nights, not by days, for the Anglo-Saxon language flourished in lands where nights were long and the days fleeting periods of light.
The Lawyers Trust Fund helps underwrite operations at 34 legal agencies throughout the state, including the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation Inc., based in Springfield, and Prairie State Legal Services, based in Rockford.
Under Spanish rule, land was taken from the Maya and turned over to tobacco and sugarcane plantations, and the once-proud Indians were reduced to farm laborers.
The levels of the three CTX isoforms α L, β Land α Dwere 2.3-fold to 2.7-fold higher in the postmenopausal women (Table 1), in accordance with previous reports of CTX levels during the menopause [ 15 ] . As all forms were elevated to the same magnitude in postmenopause, the ratios between the newly synthesised α LCTX form and the older β Land α DCTX forms was not significantly different in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
With little dry land to build on, exactly why a small group of settlers chose this unpromising spot is difficult to understand.
Then Israeli police said they had arrested an armed Palestinian squad in the process of abducting an Arab land dealer, evidently for execution.
, lack of historical cost data on land acquired at the birth of the Nation) or not meaningful (e.g.
Orange County, bedrock of conservative Southern California, is the birthplace of ex-president Richard Nixon, and land of the lawn sprinkler, the two-car garage, and the “planned community.”
Bean and Lands' End kept everything in stock until Christmas Day, they'd go broke warehousing the unsold surplus or marking it down.
In particular, the senior executive who heads the Colorado state office had a performance expectation in her individual performance plan for the 2001 performance appraisal cycle to conduct land use assessments and complete plans as scheduled for the Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area.
*Land o' the Leal, the home of the blessed after death--Paradise, not Scotland
if the structure is to be used in operations (for example, as general PP&E) but 1) the value of the structure is insignificant, or 2) its acquisition is merely a byproduct of the acquisition of the land, the cost in its entirety shall be treated as an acquisition of stewardship land; or
The fort was begun in 1869 to protect the land route to the naval dockyard at the end of the island.
You cannot carp, as Eleanor did, about privileges of race and gender without begging the question of your own megaprivileges: land, family, connections, fame, not to mention having a husband who's president.
Last year, the LSC gave Illinois nearly $12 million -- or a third of the money going to the state's legal aid programs -- to fund the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, Prairie State Legal Services and Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation.
Day excursions by bus and special Land Rover that connect with a cable car originate in Taormina or Catania.
He is the ambassador from Shangri-La, emissary from a magical, peaceful land protected by stunning mountains, dotted with magnificent temples, ruled by wise and benevolent priest-kings.
-Investments in stewardship land,8 that is, land not acquired for or in connection with general property, plant, and equipment, for example, national forests, parks, and historic sites.
Brahmins, the priestly caste, fill many of the top posts in the universities and administration; many Indian Army officers can trace their ancestry to the proud Kshatriya warrior caste; business is dominated by the merchant or Vaishya caste; and Shudras till the land.
At that moment I would have bet my very soul that he hailed from The Land Of Rabbie Burns, and the first words he uttered showed the intuition inherited from my mystic forebears to be firing on all cylinders.
In 2001, final reconfiguration of the LSC-funded delivery system will be completed, leaving three programs--Prairie State Legal Services, Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation, and the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago.
Greece was handed a strip of land along the western coast of Asia Minor, which for over 2,000 years had had a substantial Greek population.
The dispossession of Irish Catholic farmers, which took place in successive waves over several centuries, relegated them to the most marginally cultivable pieces of land.
Some investments in stewardship land, for example national parks, will be reported by both 1) the number of acres used as a park or an historic site in the stewardship land category, and 2) by the number of physical units identified as national parks in the heritage assets category.
Next to the regalia sits the Stone of Destiny, or Stone of Scone, which historically served as the seat on which Scottish kings were crowned, a symbol of the land over which they would rule.
The Canary Islands are a land of legends.
Perhaps it will not be too long before the man from Sears, and every proud American, will be able to welcome the foreigner to a land where people are not afraid to roll up their sleeves.
Such PP&E consists of Federal mission PP&E, heritage assets, and stewardship land.
The land is like an iceberg; massive mountains poke through the clouds, forming the mere tip of a submerged mass.
Bean, Land's End, and J. Crew on the Web.
In cases where land has multiple uses, none of which is predominant, a description of the multiple uses shall be presented.
Land Sports
The land of the free has upheld the finest democratic traditions."
Stewardship Land - land other than that acquired for or in connection with general PP&E.
Follow the road out of the top of the village and inexorably upward to the Nída Plateau, a land once only visited by shepherds tending their flocks.
But, in 1788, Captain Arthur Phillip landed at Botany Bay (near the present Sydney) with a mixed party of convicts and their military custodians and sought to use what little knowledge had been passed on to him of the indigenous inhabitants, their language, and the new land's flora and fauna.
Section 332 requires the Commission, in managing the spectrum used by private land mobile services, to encourage competition and provide services to the largest feasible number of users.
This 17th-century building was constructed by Governor Samuel Day, who arrived from England, found the old governor’s house in disrepair, and built this house using government land and government wood — yet he refused to hand over the house when he was ousted from office after only two years.
The recent change in Miami by which Spanish is allowed alongside English as an official language is seen by some as a Balkanization of the cherished “melting pot”; but those holding that view who support it with the claim that the 20th-century immigrants have assimilated culturally and speak English are wrong: many speak little or no English, and most make every effort they can to retain the cultures of their respective native lands, including religious observances.
The three agencies are the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, Rockford-based Prairie State Legal Services and Alton-based Land of Lincoln Legal Services.
The fascination of American place names--their style and flair and what they reveal about the land and its inhabitants--has captivated writers, scholars, and other observers for more than 150 years.
The Osceola Mills case, Robesonia outbreak, and the occurrence of staphylococcal infections among residents at other land application sites suggest that risks land application practices pose from these pathogens may be higher than expected.
Back on land, some children enjoy having their hair braided.
The treaty arrived at without U.S. participation prohibits all anti-personnel land mines.
Land not acquired for or in connection with22 items of general PP&E, that is, stewardship land, shall be reported as required supplementary stewardship information accompanying the financial statements of the Federal Government and the separate reports of component units of the Federal Government responsible for such land.
Known as Rajputana, and stretching from Delhi to the Pakistani Sind and the Punjab, this land is where the Rajput warriors erected their desert and mountain redoubts.
And ending, of course, that he will not cease from Mental Fight until "we have built Jerusalem in England's green and pleasant Land."
The paediatrician treating patients in the area (author C. Pumphrey) noted that children living near the land application sites appeared to develop abnormally persistent sinusitis.
The land here has been developed into one of the largest resort areas outside the two main islands.
(The duke's lands included Bordeaux.)
According to the Natural Resources Conservation Service, this single, voluntary program will provide flexible technical, financial, and educational assistance to farmers and ranchers who face serious threats to soil, water, and related natural resources on agricultural and other lands, including grazing lands, wetlands, forest lands, and wildlife habitats.
There was also a campaign of official discrimination against Chinese and Japanese immigrants, excluding them from owning land and preventing further immigration.
Cop Land
Because they implemented a set of balanced expectations prior to the Office of Personnel Management requirement, GAO studied the Bureau of Land Management's, Federal Highway Administration's, Internal Revenue Service's, and Veterans Benefits Administration's use of balanced expectations to manage senior executive performance in order to identify initial approaches that may be helpful to other agencies in holding senior executives accountable for results.
A 22-mile (35-km) stretch north of Conch Cut has been protected for future generations by the creation of the Exuma Cays Land and Sea Park, 175 sq miles (453 sq km) of land and sea that includes some of the best yet most remote beaches in the Bahamas.
For in Paris they told the elf Our rough North land was the Land of Lays,
Thus, even if GAO were able to identify certain deficiencies in a land management plan, for example, GAO would be prohibited from examining the process used to develop the plan in order to suggest improvements.
The 19 th century Jewish intellectuals who conceived of Zionism --the idea that Jewish survival depends on the establishment of a Jewish state in the biblical land of Israel--never worked out their ideology's logistics.
jSee accompanying notes to the financial statements for the condition of stewardship land.
When Christopher Columbus disembarked on eastern Cuba on 27 October 1492, he quickly penned a note exclaiming that the land was “the most lovely that eyes have ever seen.”
So I quite agree that the legal structure, sensible or Draconian as it might be, can shape the nature of interactions on the net, just as it has shaped interaction first on land and sea, and then on the spectrum.
"Land rights" are interests and privileges held by the entity in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, mineral rights, and other like interests in land.
Fishermen land their catches at Padangbai’s small busy beach, which is jammed with boats, just to the north of the main jetty.
Though snobs and the stuffier sorts of pedagogues are toffee-nosed about regional dialects, poets such as Ted Hughes have acclaimed the organic way they have of fitting the syllables/To the long swell of the land.
In addition to the transfers shown above in the "Community and Regional Development" category, the fair value of land and facilities associated with former military installations that were transferred to local governments approximated $40 million in 199Y and $52 million in 199Z.
Tomorrowland, one of the most exciting theme lands, is constantly being renovated to keep pace with technological progress.
If your unborn soul could have bought an insurance contract, then you'd probably have snapped up some kind of "skill insurance" in which everybody pays premiums, and those who land in the shallow end of the gene pool split the pot.
Where parcels of stewardship land have more than one use, the predominant use of the land is considered the major use.
Aside from exotic fruits, strange roots, land crabs, dried fish, spices, and nuts, you can pick up “spiritual spray” for your house, ointments designed to bring you money, lotions and powders for your ailments, or a baby pig.
Land data are included in a separate section of this information entitled "Stewardship Land."
, Diefenbaker and Trudeau, this land was theirs.
We have rules that regulate the full-time surveillance of other individuals on land, and these can be carried over to the Net as needed.
In 1982, for example, RCED examined the progress made since the 1970's in cleaning up the nation's air, water, and land, finding that while strides had been made toward meeting the established goals (cleaner air, properly treated wastewater, more drinkable water), deadlines had been extended and unresolved issues made meeting even these deadlines difficult (U.S.
The name, meaning “two islands,” refers to two knobs of land sticking out from the coast in the middle of the reserve.
Charles Stewart Parnell, an Irish member of parliament, took up the cause, and the Land Acts, which enabled hard-pressed tenants to buy their land, were passed.
Over 90 percent of its land is uninhabited, contrasting with great centers of population, including the capital, Cairo, which is the largest city in Africa — a dusty, noisy, sprawling, neon-lit, crowded metropolis of more than fourteen million people.
Initial demand for land in the New Town was not spectacular; in fact, incentives had to be offered to entice buyers.
It failed, the natives said, because of that island’s evil elves called chickcharnies, who cast a spell on the family for disturbing the land.
The Inuit and other indigenous peoples have also negotiated concessions for their lands and resources, and in 1999, the immense Northern Territories divided in two.
In 1951, the Lake District National Park was created, which extended this protection to a much wider area while imposing planning regulations and environmental guidelines and allowing further public access to the land.
In Warsaw, top musicals of the Andrew Lloyd Weber variety land at Roma (ul. Konopnickiej 6); the Narodowy, or National Theater (Pl. Teatralny 1) that was recently renovated from head to toe after a devastating fire.
The West is, above all, Rajasthan, land of the great maharajas, with its desert and lake palaces, but it’s also the bustle of Mumbai and the splendor of the cave temples at Ajanta and Ellora.
When it comes to ideas, there is no more tolerant land on earth.
The Métis were driven off their fertile land and back to hunting on the plains.
If you continue to the end of the promenade, you will be in Tsim Sha Tsui East, a busy commercial district built on more than 60 hectares (150 acres) of reclaimed land.
He then annexed about 2,330 sq km (900 sq miles) of land due south of Calcutta to provide rents for the British settlement and to guarantee himself an income of £30,000 per year for life.
With land prices notoriously high, urban courts are crowded and expensive, so your best bet is at the seaside or hot-spring resorts.
Wuxi is an industrial and marketing center with a population of more than one million in the “land of fish and rice,” a fertile semitropical region.
The dense undergrowth of their aerial prop roots perform natural land reclamation.
They had wandered a long way from their home east of the Ural Mountains, and fell upon the land with such ferocity that the local people thought they too were Huns (one might be tempted to think this is the origin of the English Hungary).
Because their land, located in remote areas of the high Sierra Madre mountains, has diminished in productivity, they can no longer produce enough for self-sufficiency, and have been forced to look for supplemental forms of income.
The people of Spanish Wells are noted seamen and farmers (they were given land to farm on the main island in the 18th century); many still make their living by fishing for crawfish, grouper, yellowtail, and conch, or by building boats, though the best-known local product is perhaps the wide-brimmed Spanish Wells straw hat.
The modern Republic of Turkey dates only from 1923, but the history of the land within its borders stretches back to the dawn of humanity.
of land and sea.
In 1866 the islanders rose up once again to wrest control of their land from the Turks.
In terms of the ratio of population to usable land, Japan is the most densely populated country in the world.
The Jewish people in Israel are from many lands and differ in culture, language, and customs.
Towards the end of the first millennium the land we now call the Netherlands was ruled by a number of feudal lords — assorted counts, dukes, and bishops who had total power over the land and the people who lived on it.
They once owned almost all the land on which Montego Bay now stands.
In ancient times this was the spiritual center of the Greek world and people would travel by land or sea to consult the gods.
Following Alexander’s death, his lands were divided among his generals.
On Dry Land
On the ground floor is a modest aquarium showing the sealife of Madeira, while upstairs is a thoroughly old-fashioned collection of stuffed local sea and land creatures.
Land speculators and locals alike were anxious to own a part of the newest railroad boomtown, and within an afternoon, more than 80 percent of the lots were sold.
Small bands of Asiatic hunters migrated across the Bering Strait land bridge before 12,000 b.c. and gradually spread southwards through the Americas.
Gladstone’s Land, built in 1620, still has its period shopfronts at the roadside.
The most famous stretch of beach in Bali forms the western shore of a narrow neck of land just north of the airport.
From the elevated first tee, the panorama of green land, blue-green harbor, and dark blue sea stirs the heart.
To the common man, wars were just another hardship, taking sons away from the farm to fight, while the armies — French as much as foreign — ravaged the land or pillaged the towns.
In place of land came water, surging in to fill the 11-km (7-mile) long void and causing massive tidal waves around the Mediterranean Sea.
Together with the Métis Association (descendants of intermarried French fur traders and Plains Indians), they are involved in a tussle with private oil and natural gas companies to protect land rights and traditional culture.
This tiny patch of land, 63 sq miles in area, is at the center of a momentous turning point in history, for it was here that Christopher Columbus first made landfall in the New World, on 12 October 1492.
The National Seashore has two Information Centers: The Salt Pond Center, near Eastham on Route 6, and Province Lands Visitor Center just outside P-town.
Fertile land and high rainfall have brought prosperity to this part of Bali, without the debatable benefits of tourism.
The central part of the Po valley is only a fraction of the Italian lands conquered by the Lombards when they crossed the Alps from eastern Europe in the early Middle Ages.
Built on 20 hectares (50 acres) of land, Verdmont is believed to date from about 1710.
The Marais district, north of the two islands in the river, was built on land reclaimed from the marshes.
In 1823, a nun from the Convent of Kechrovouni had a dream in which the Virgin Mary told her that a sacred icon could be found in land nearby.
This sweeping vista of Jerusalem has changed greatly over the centuries, but has never failed to dazzle millions of pilgrims who have made the long journey to the Holy Land.
Greece moved in to administer the land, but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part of greater Greece.
It is said to have been built at the site where Joseph, Mary, and the infant Jesus took shelter after they fled to Egypt from the Holy Land.
The land in this area is mostly mangrove swamp and a haven for wildlife, being remote from the tourist activity of the Hotel Zone.
A comprehensive nationalization program followed, and the government expropriated factories, utilities, and more land.
If you prefer to stay close to Beijing, the better part of a varied week could profitably be spent investigating the carvings of the Buddhist caves near Datong, visiting the Mongolian lands of Hohhot, and viewing the Chinese and Tibetan temples of Chengde.
In a peaceful, green canalside setting disturbed only by perky Canada geese, notoriously loud honkers, you’ll find authentic pre-1867 buildings, from the simple timbered sawmill or old schoolhouse to the sophisticated brick-built Crysler Hall in the Palladian style favored by colonial land owners from Ontario to Alabama.
Deveaux was the first of some 7,000 loyalists who, with slaves and the promise of land grants, came to the Bahamas from the southern American colonies in the wake of the English defeat in the Revolutionary War.
A rare survivor in a land constantly ravaged by so many invasions, it is claimed to be the oldest in Hungary.
They finally settled in a suburb of Los Angeles, Hollywood, where there was guaranteed sunshine all the year round plus — within easy reach of the new studios — deserts and mountains as well as beaches, rivers, forests, and islands which could double for the Wild West, the Holy Land, the Mediterranean — wherever.
In 1128 the king, David I, ceded land to the Augustinian order for the creation of the Abbey of Holyrood.
This article is concerned with the first fifty years of settlement, 1788-1838 and begins with the two collocations Crown land and waste land , which sometimes coalesce in the uniquely Australian waste lands of the Crown.
